add v8.5.0 release notes (#19336)
pingcap/docs: releases/release-8.5.0.md

Author: https://pr.pingcap-docsite-preview.pages.dev/tidb/dev/release-8.5.0

TiDB 8.5.0 is a Long-Term Support Release (LTS).

Compared with the previous LTS 8.1.0, 8.5.0 includes new features, improvements, and bug fixes released in [8.2.0-DMR](/releases/release-8.2.0.md), [8.3.0-DMR](/releases/release-8.3.0.md), and [8.4.0-DMR](/releases/release-8.4.0.md). When you upgrade from 8.1.x to 8.5.0, you can download the [TiDB Release Notes PDF](https://download.pingcap.org/tidb-v8.1-to-v8.5-en-release-notes.pdf) to view all release notes between the two LTS versions. The following table lists some highlights from 8.1.0 to 8.5.0:

<!--Highlights table: ToDo-->

## Feature details

### Scalability

* Placeholder for feature summary [#Issue-number](issue-link) @[Contributor-GitHub-ID](id-link) **tw@xxx** <!--1234-->

    Provide a concise overview of what the feature is, the value it offers to users, and include a brief sentence on how to use it effectively. If there are any particularly important aspects of this feature, be sure to mention them as well.

    For more information, see [Documentation](link).

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* - The Schema cache memory limit feature is now Generally Available (GA), reducing memory usage in large-scale data scenarios.  [#50959](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/50959) @[tiancaiamao](https://github.com/tiancaiamao) @[wjhuang2016](https://github.com/wjhuang2016) @[gmhdbjd](https://github.com/gmhdbjd) @[tangenta](https://github.com/tangenta) tw@hfxsd <!--1976-->

    In some SaaS scenarios, when the number of tables reaches hundreds of thousands or even millions, the schema meta can consume significant memory. Enabling this feature allows the system to use the LRU algorithm to cache and evict the corresponding schema meta information, effectively reducing memory usage. Starting from v8.4, this feature is enabled by default with a default value of 512MiB, and users can adjust it as needed through the variable [tidb_schema_cache_size](/system-variables#tidb_schema_cache_size-new-in-v800).

    For more information, see [Documentation](link).
```

### Performance

* Placeholder for feature summary [#Issue-number](issue-link) @[Contributor-GitHub-ID](id-link) **tw@xxx** <!--1234-->

    Provide a concise overview of what the feature is, the value it offers to users, and include a brief sentence on how to use it effectively. If there are any particularly important aspects of this feature, be sure to mention them as well.

    For more information, see [Documentation](link).

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* The database and table creation acceleration feature is now Generally Available (GA), significantly reducing the time required for data migration and cluster initialization. [#50052](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/50052) @[D3Hunter](https://github.com/D3Hunter) @[gmhdbjd](https://github.com/gmhdbjd) tw@Oreoxmt <!--1977--> 

    In v8.0.0, the system variable [tidb_enable_fast_create_table](/system-variables#tidb_enable_fast_create_table-new-in-v800) was introduced to improve the performance of batch database and table creation. During data migration and cluster initialization, it enables the rapid creation of tables at the million-scale level, significantly reducing the time required.

    For more information, see [Documentation](link).
```

    Provide a concise overview of what the feature is, the value it offers to users, and include a brief sentence on how to use it effectively. If there are any particularly important aspects of this feature, be sure to mention them as well.

    For more information, see [Documentation](link).

### Availability

* Placeholder for feature summary [#Issue-number](issue-link) @[Contributor-GitHub-ID](id-link) **tw@xxx** <!--1234-->

    Provide a concise overview of what the feature is, the value it offers to users, and include a brief sentence on how to use it effectively. If there are any particularly important aspects of this feature, be sure to mention them as well.

    For more information, see [Documentation](link).

### SQL

* Placeholder for feature summary [#Issue-number](issue-link) @[Contributor-GitHub-ID](id-link) **tw@xxx** <!--1234-->

    Provide a concise overview of what the feature is, the value it offers to users, and include a brief sentence on how to use it effectively. If there are any particularly important aspects of this feature, be sure to mention them as well.

    For more information, see [Documentation](link).

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
*The Foreign Key feature is now Generally Available (GA) [#36982](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/36982) @[YangKeao](https://github.com/YangKeao) @[crazycs520](https://github.com/crazycs520) tw@lilin90 <!--1894-->

  The Foreign Key feature is now GA, enabling the use of foreign key constraints to enhance data consistency and integrity. Users can easily create foreign key constraints between tables, with support for cascading updates and deletions, making data management more convenient. This feature provides better support for applications with complex data constraints.

  For more information, see [Documentation](link).

*Introduction of ADMIN ALTER DDL JOBS syntax to support online modification of DDL job variables  [# ](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/ ) @[fzzf678](https://github.com/fzzf678) @[tangenta](https://github.com/tangenta) tw@hfxsd <!--2016--> 

  Starting from v8.3, it is now possible to set the variables [tidb_ddl_reorg_batch_size](/system-variables#tidb_ddl_reorg_batch_size)  and [tidb_ddl_reorg_worker_cnt](/system-variables#tidb_ddl_reorg_worker_cnt) at the session level. As a result, setting these two variables globally no longer affects all running DDL jobs. To modify the values of these variables, the DDL job must first be canceled, the variables adjusted, and then resubmit the job.
  Since v8.5, the ADMIN ALTER DDL JOBS syntax has been introduced, allowing online adjustment of variable values for specific DDL jobs. This enables flexible balancing of resource consumption and performance, with changes limited to an individual job, making the impact more controllable. For example:
- ADMIN ALTER DDL JOBS job_id THREAD = 8; — Adjusts the tidb_ddl_reorg_worker_cnt for the specified DDL task.
- ADMIN ALTER DDL JOBS job_id BATCH_SIZE = 256; — Adjusts the tidb_ddl_reorg_batch_size for the specified DDL task.
- ADMIN ALTER DDL JOBS job_id MAX_WRITE_SPEED = '200MiB'; — Adjusts the write traffic size for index data on each TiKV node.

  For more information, see [Documentation](link).
```

* Placeholder for feature summary [#Issue-number](issue-link) @[Contributor-GitHub-ID](id-link) **tw@xxx** <!--1234-->

    Provide a concise overview of what the feature is, the value it offers to users, and include a brief sentence on how to use it effectively. If there are any particularly important aspects of this feature, be sure to mention them as well.

    For more information, see [Documentation](link).

* The database and table creation acceleration feature is now Generally Available (GA), significantly reducing the time required for data migration and cluster initialization. [#50052](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/50052) @[D3Hunter](https://github.com/D3Hunter) @[gmhdbjd](https://github.com/gmhdbjd) tw@Oreoxmt <!--1977-->

    In v8.0.0, the system variable [tidb_enable_fast_create_table](/system-variables#tidb_enable_fast_create_table-new-in-v800) was introduced to improve the performance of batch database and table creation. During data migration and cluster initialization, it enables the rapid creation of tables at the million-scale level, significantly reducing the time required.

    For more information, see [Documentation](link).

### Reliability

> * Enabling rate limiter can protect PD from being crash under a large number of sudden requests and improve the stability of PD (General Availability) [#5739](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/5739) @[rleungx](https://github.com/rleungx)

Author: ```suggestion
* Enabling rate limiter can protect PD from being crash under a large number of sudden requests and improve the stability of PD [#5739](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/5739) @[rleungx](https://github.com/rleungx)
```

>     You can adjust the rate limiter configuration through pd-ctl, for more information, see [PD Control User Guide | TiDB Docs](/stable/pd-control.md).

Author: ```suggestion
    You can adjust the rate limiter configuration through pd-ctl. 
    
    For more information, see [PD Control User Guide | TiDB Docs](/stable/pd-control.md).
```

    For more information, see [Documentation](link).

### SQL

* Placeholder for feature summary [#Issue-number](issue-link) @[Contributor-GitHub-ID](id-link) **tw@xxx** <!--1234-->

    Provide a concise overview of what the feature is, the value it offers to users, and include a brief sentence on how to use it effectively. If there are any particularly important aspects of this feature, be sure to mention them as well.

    For more information, see [Documentation](link).

* The Foreign Key feature is now Generally Available (GA) [#36982](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/36982) @[YangKeao](https://github.com/YangKeao) @[crazycs520](https://github.com/crazycs520) tw@lilin90 <!--1894-->

    The Foreign Key feature is now GA, enabling the use of foreign key constraints to enhance data consistency and integrity. Users can easily create foreign key constraints between tables, with support for cascading updates and deletions, making data management more convenient. This feature provides better support for applications with complex data constraints.

    For more information, see [Documentation](link).

> * Introduction of ADMIN ALTER DDL JOBS syntax to support online modification of DDL job variables [#57229](hhttps://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/57229) @[fzzf678](https://github.com/fzzf678) @[tangenta](https://github.com/tangenta) tw@hfxsd <!--2016--> 

Author: ```suggestion
* Introduction of ADMIN ALTER DDL JOBS syntax to support online modification of DDL job variables [#57229](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/57229) @[fzzf678](https://github.com/fzzf678) @[tangenta](https://github.com/tangenta) tw@hfxsd <!--2016--> 
```

    - Encrypt using a master key stored on a local disk
    - Encrypt using a master key managed by a Key Management Service (KMS)

  For more information, see [documentation](/br/br-pitr-manual.md#encrypt-the-log-backup-data).

### Data migration

* Placeholder for feature summary [#Issue-number](issue-link) @[Contributor-GitHub-ID](id-link) **tw@xxx** <!--1234-->

    Provide a concise overview of what the feature is, the value it offers to users, and include a brief sentence on how to use it effectively. If there are any particularly important aspects of this feature, be sure to mention them as well.

    For more information, see [Documentation](link).

## Compatibility changes

> **Note:**
>
> This section provides compatibility changes you need to know when you upgrade from v8.1.0 to the current version (v8.2.0). If you are upgrading from v8.0.0 or earlier versions to the current version, you might also need to check the compatibility changes introduced in intermediate versions.

### Behavior changes

### MySQL compatibility

### System variables

| Variable name | Change type | Description |
|--------|------------------------------|------|

> |  |  |  |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|tidb_ddl_reorg_max_write_speed  | Newly added |Used to control the speed at which TiDB writes index data to a single TiKV node. For example, setting the value to 200 MiB limits the maximum write speed to 200 MiB/s.  |
```

* The TiDB Lightning parameter [`conflict.max-record-rows`](/tidb-lightning/tidb-lightning-configuration.md#tidb-lightning-task) is planned for deprecation in a future release and will be subsequently removed. This parameter will be replaced by [`conflict.threshold`](/tidb-lightning/tidb-lightning-configuration.md#tidb-lightning-task), which means that the maximum number of conflicting records is consistent with the maximum number of conflicting records that can be tolerated in a single import task.
* Starting from v6.3.0, partitioned tables use [dynamic pruning mode](/partitioned-table.md#dynamic-pruning-mode) by default. Compared with static pruning mode, dynamic pruning mode supports features such as IndexJoin and plan cache with better performance. Therefore, static pruning mode will be deprecated.

## Improvements

+ TiDB

    - note [#Issue-number](issue-link) @[Contributor-GitHub-ID](id-link)
    - note [#Issue-number](issue-link) @[Contributor-GitHub-ID](id-link)

+ TiKV

    - note [#Issue-number](issue-link) @[Contributor-GitHub-ID](id-link)
    - note [#Issue-number](issue-link) @[Contributor-GitHub-ID](id-link)

+ PD

> 

Reviewer 2: * Use the Active PD Follower feature to enhance the scalability of PD's Region information query service (General Availability) [#7431](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/7431) @[okJiang](https://github.com/okJiang)

    In a TiDB cluster with a large number of Regions, the PD leader might experience high CPU load due to the increased overhead of handling heartbeats and scheduling tasks. If the cluster has many TiDB instances, and there is a high concurrency of requests for Region information, the CPU pressure on the PD leader increases further and might cause PD services to become unavailable.

    To ensure high availability and also enhance the scalability of PD's Region information query service. You can enable the Active PD Follower feature by setting the system variable [`pd_enable_follower_handle_region`](/system-variables.md#pd_enable_follower_handle_region-new-in-v760) to `ON`. After this feature is enabled, TiDB evenly distributes Region information requests to all PD servers, and PD followers can also handle Region requests, thereby reducing the CPU pressure on the PD leader.

    For more information, see [documentation](/tune-region-performance.md#use-the-active-pd-follower-feature-to-enhance-the-scalability-of-pds-region-information-query-service)

* Enabling rate limiter can protect PD from being crash under a large number of sudden requests and improve the stability of PD (General Availability) [#5739](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/5739) @[rleungx](https://github.com/rleungx)

    You can adjust the rate limiter configuration through pd-ctl, for more information, see [PD Control User Guide | TiDB Docs](/stable/pd-control.md)

Author: added in [`17d1e67` (#19336)](https://github.com/pingcap/docs/pull/19336/commits/17d1e677da39670eeeb1e53929b8a9a370eebd64)

---
title: TiDB 8.5.0 Release Notes
summary: Learn about the new features, compatibility changes, improvements, and bug fixes in TiDB 8.5.0.
---

# TiDB 8.5.0 Release Notes

<EmailSubscriptionWrapper />

Release date: xx xx, 2024

TiDB version: 8.5.0

Quick access: [Quick start](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v8.5/quick-start-with-tidb) | [Production deployment](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v8.5/production-deployment-using-tiup)

TiDB 8.5.0 is a Long-Term Support Release (LTS).

Compared with the previous LTS 8.1.0, 8.5.0 includes new features, improvements, and bug fixes released in [8.2.0-DMR](/releases/release-8.2.0.md), [8.3.0-DMR](/releases/release-8.3.0.md), and [8.4.0-DMR](/releases/release-8.4.0.md). When you upgrade from 8.1.x to 8.5.0, you can download the [TiDB Release Notes PDF](https://download.pingcap.org/tidb-v8.1-to-v8.5-en-release-notes.pdf) to view all release notes between the two LTS versions. The following table lists some highlights from 8.1.0 to 8.5.0:

<!--Highlights table: ToDo-->

## Feature details

### Scalability

> * The Schema cache memory limit feature is now Generally Available (GA), reducing memory usage in large-scale data scenarios.  [#50959](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/50959) @[tiancaiamao](https://github.com/tiancaiamao) @[wjhuang2016](https://github.com/wjhuang2016) @[gmhdbjd](https://github.com/gmhdbjd) @[tangenta](https://github.com/tangenta) tw@hfxsd <!--1976-->

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* The Schema cache memory limit feature is now Generally Available (GA), reducing memory usage in scenarios with hundreds of thousands or even millions of databases or tables. [#50959](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/50959) @[tiancaiamao](https://github.com/tiancaiamao) @[wjhuang2016](https://github.com/wjhuang2016) @[gmhdbjd](https://github.com/gmhdbjd) @[tangenta](https://github.com/tangenta) tw@hfxsd <!--1976-->
```

    For more information, see [Documentation](link).

### SQL

* Placeholder for feature summary [#Issue-number](issue-link) @[Contributor-GitHub-ID](id-link) **tw@xxx** <!--1234-->

    Provide a concise overview of what the feature is, the value it offers to users, and include a brief sentence on how to use it effectively. If there are any particularly important aspects of this feature, be sure to mention them as well.

    For more information, see [Documentation](link).

* The Foreign Key feature is now Generally Available (GA) [#36982](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/36982) @[YangKeao](https://github.com/YangKeao) @[crazycs520](https://github.com/crazycs520) tw@lilin90 <!--1894-->

    The Foreign Key feature is now GA, enabling the use of foreign key constraints to enhance data consistency and integrity. Users can easily create foreign key constraints between tables, with support for cascading updates and deletions, making data management more convenient. This feature provides better support for applications with complex data constraints.

    For more information, see [Documentation](link).

> * Introduction of ADMIN ALTER DDL JOBS syntax to support online modification of DDL job variables [#57229](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/57229) @[fzzf678](https://github.com/fzzf678) @[tangenta](https://github.com/tangenta) tw@hfxsd <!--2016--> 
> 
>     Starting from v8.3, it is now possible to set the variables [tidb_ddl_reorg_batch_size](/system-variables#tidb_ddl_reorg_batch_size)  and [tidb_ddl_reorg_worker_cnt](/system-variables#tidb_ddl_reorg_worker_cnt) at the session level. As a result, setting these two variables globally no longer affects all running DDL jobs. To modify the values of these variables, the DDL job must first be canceled, the variables adjusted, and then resubmit the job.
> 
>     Since v8.5, the ADMIN ALTER DDL JOBS syntax has been introduced, allowing online adjustment of variable values for specific DDL jobs. This enables flexible balancing of resource consumption and performance, with changes limited to an individual job, making the impact more controllable. For example:
> 
>     - `ADMIN ALTER DDL JOBS job_id THREAD = 8;` — Adjusts the `tidb_ddl_reorg_worker_cnt` for the specified DDL task.
>     - `ADMIN ALTER DDL JOBS job_id BATCH_SIZE = 256;` — Adjusts the `tidb_ddl_reorg_batch_size` for the specified DDL task.
>     - `ADMIN ALTER DDL JOBS job_id MAX_WRITE_SPEED = '200MiB';` — Adjusts the write traffic size for index data on each TiKV node.
> 
>   For more information, see [Documentation](link).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* Introduce the `ADMIN ALTER DDL JOBS` statement to support modifying the DDL jobs online [#57229](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/57229) @[fzzf678](https://github.com/fzzf678) @[tangenta](https://github.com/tangenta) tw@hfxsd <!--2016--> 

    Starting from v8.3.0, you can set the variables [`tidb_ddl_reorg_batch_size`](/system-variables#tidb_ddl_reorg_batch_size)  and [`tidb_ddl_reorg_worker_cnt`](/system-variables#tidb_ddl_reorg_worker_cnt) at the session level. As a result, setting these two variables globally no longer affects all running DDL jobs. To modify the values of these variables, you need to cancel the DDL job first, adjust the variables, and then resubmit the job.

    TiDB v8.5.0 introduces the `ADMIN ALTER DDL JOBS` statement, allowing online adjustment of variable values for specific DDL jobs. This enables flexible balancing of resource consumption and performance, with changes limited to an individual job, making the impact more controllable. For example:

    - `ADMIN ALTER DDL JOBS job_id THREAD = 8;`: adjusts the `tidb_ddl_reorg_worker_cnt` for the specified DDL task.
    - `ADMIN ALTER DDL JOBS job_id BATCH_SIZE = 256;`: adjusts the `tidb_ddl_reorg_batch_size` for the specified DDL task.
    - `ADMIN ALTER DDL JOBS job_id MAX_WRITE_SPEED = '200MiB';`: adjusts the write traffic size for index data on each TiKV node.

  For more information, see [Documentation](/sql-statements/sql-statement-admin-alter-ddl.md).
```

### DB operations

* Placeholder for feature summary [#Issue-number](issue-link) @[Contributor-GitHub-ID](id-link) **tw@xxx** <!--1234-->

    Provide a concise overview of what the feature is, the value it offers to users, and include a brief sentence on how to use it effectively. If there are any particularly important aspects of this feature, be sure to mention them as well.

    For more information, see [Documentation](link).

### Observability

* Placeholder for feature summary [#Issue-number](issue-link) @[Contributor-GitHub-ID](id-link) **tw@xxx** <!--1234-->

    Provide a concise overview of what the feature is, the value it offers to users, and include a brief sentence on how to use it effectively. If there are any particularly important aspects of this feature, be sure to mention them as well.

    For more information, see [Documentation](link).

### Security

* BR supports client-side encryption of log backup data (GA) [#56433](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/56433) @[Tristan1900](https://github.com/Tristan1900) tw@qiancai <!--1998-->

>     TiDB v8.4.0 introduced an experimental feature to encrypt, on the client side, log backup data. Starting from v8.5.0, this feature is now Generally Avaialble. Before uploading log backup data to your backup storage, you can encrypt the backup data to ensure its security via one of the following methods:

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
    TiDB v8.4.0 introduced an experimental feature to encrypt, on the client side, log backup data. Starting from v8.5.0, this feature is now Generally Available. Before uploading log backup data to your backup storage, you can encrypt the log backup data to ensure its security via one of the following methods:
```

### Performance

* Placeholder for feature summary [#Issue-number](issue-link) @[Contributor-GitHub-ID](id-link) **tw@xxx** <!--1234-->

    Provide a concise overview of what the feature is, the value it offers to users, and include a brief sentence on how to use it effectively. If there are any particularly important aspects of this feature, be sure to mention them as well.

    For more information, see [Documentation](link).

* The database and table creation acceleration feature is now Generally Available (GA), significantly reducing the time required for data migration and cluster initialization. [#50052](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/50052) @[D3Hunter](https://github.com/D3Hunter) @[gmhdbjd](https://github.com/gmhdbjd) tw@Oreoxmt <!--1977-->

    In v8.0.0, the system variable [tidb_enable_fast_create_table](/system-variables#tidb_enable_fast_create_table-new-in-v800) was introduced to improve the performance of batch database and table creation. During data migration and cluster initialization, it enables the rapid creation of tables at the million-scale level, significantly reducing the time required.

>     For more information, see [Documentation](link).

Reviewer: LGTM

  For more information, see [Documentation](/sql-statements/sql-statement-admin-alter-ddl.md).

### DB operations

* Placeholder for feature summary [#Issue-number](issue-link) @[Contributor-GitHub-ID](id-link) **tw@xxx** <!--1234-->

    Provide a concise overview of what the feature is, the value it offers to users, and include a brief sentence on how to use it effectively. If there are any particularly important aspects of this feature, be sure to mention them as well.

    For more information, see [Documentation](link).

### Observability

* Placeholder for feature summary [#Issue-number](issue-link) @[Contributor-GitHub-ID](id-link) **tw@xxx** <!--1234-->

    Provide a concise overview of what the feature is, the value it offers to users, and include a brief sentence on how to use it effectively. If there are any particularly important aspects of this feature, be sure to mention them as well.

    For more information, see [Documentation](link).

### Security

* BR supports client-side encryption of log backup data (GA) [#56433](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/56433) @[Tristan1900](https://github.com/Tristan1900) tw@qiancai <!--1998-->

> 

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
TiDB V5.3.0 introduced an experimental feature to encrypt full backup data on the client side, you can encrypt the backup data using a custom fixed key. This feature is Generally Available in v8.5.0

For more information, see [documentation](/br/br-snapshot-manual.md#encrypt-the-backup-data).
```

### Data migration

* Placeholder for feature summary [#Issue-number](issue-link) @[Contributor-GitHub-ID](id-link) **tw@xxx** <!--1234-->

    Provide a concise overview of what the feature is, the value it offers to users, and include a brief sentence on how to use it effectively. If there are any particularly important aspects of this feature, be sure to mention them as well.

    For more information, see [Documentation](link).

## Compatibility changes

> **Note:**
>
> This section provides compatibility changes you need to know when you upgrade from v8.1.0 to the current version (v8.2.0). If you are upgrading from v8.0.0 or earlier versions to the current version, you might also need to check the compatibility changes introduced in intermediate versions.

### Behavior changes

### MySQL compatibility

### System variables

| Variable name | Change type | Description |
|--------|------------------------------|------|
|tidb_ddl_reorg_max_write_speed  | Newly added |Used to control the speed at which TiDB writes index data to a single TiKV node. For example, setting the value to 200 MiB limits the maximum write speed to 200 MiB/s.  |

> |  |  |  |

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
| [`tidb_enable_fast_create_table`](/system-variables.md#tidb_enable_fast_create_table-new-in-v800) | Modified | Changes the default value from `OFF` to `ON` after further tests, meaning that the [accelerated table creation](/accelerated-table-creation.md) feature is enabled by default. |
```

    For more information, see [Documentation](link).

* TiDB accelerated table creation becomes generally available (GA), significantly reducing data migration and cluster initialization time [#50052](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/50052) @[D3Hunter](https://github.com/D3Hunter) @[gmhdbjd](https://github.com/gmhdbjd) tw@Oreoxmt <!--1977-->

    TiDB v7.6.0 introduces accelerated table creation as an experimental feature, controlled by the system variable [`tidb_ddl_version`](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v7.6/system-variables#tidb_ddl_version-new-in-v760). Staring from v8.0.0, this system variable is renamed to [`tidb_enable_fast_create_table`](/system-variables.md#tidb_enable_fast_create_table-new-in-v800).

    In v8.5.0, TiDB accelerated table creation becomes generally available (GA) and is enabled by default. During data migration and cluster initialization, this feature supports rapid creation of millions of tables, significantly reducing operation time.

    For more information, see [Documentation](/accelerated-table-creation.md).

### Reliability

> * Enabling rate limiter can protect PD from being crash under a large number of sudden requests and improve the stability of PD [#5739](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/5739) @[rleungx](https://github.com/rleungx)
> 
>     You can adjust the rate limiter configuration through pd-ctl. 
>     
>     For more information, see [Documentation](/stable/pd-control.md).

Author: ```suggestion
* Enabling rate limiter can protect PD from being crash under a large number of sudden requests and improve the stability of PD [#5739](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/5739) @[rleungx](https://github.com/rleungx) **tw@qiancai** <!--2018-->

    You can adjust the rate limiter configuration through pd-ctl. 
    
    For more information, see [Documentation](/stable/pd-control.md).
```

    For more information, see [Documentation](link).

### Security

* BR supports client-side encryption of full backup (GA) [#28640](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/28640) @[joccau](https://github.com/joccau) and log backup data (GA) [#56433] (https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/56433) @[Tristan1900](https://github.com/Tristan1900) tw@qiancai <!--1998-->
TiDB V5.3.0 introduced an experimental feature to encrypt full backup data on the client side, you can encrypt the backup data using a custom fixed key. This feature is Generally Available in v8.5.0

For more information, see [documentation](/br/br-snapshot-manual.md#encrypt-the-backup-data).
    TiDB v8.4.0 introduced an experimental feature to encrypt log backup data on the client side. Starting from v8.5.0, this feature is now Generally Available. Before uploading log backup data to your backup storage, you can encrypt the log backup data to ensure its security via one of the following methods:

    - Encrypt using a custom fixed key
    - Encrypt using a master key stored on a local disk
    - Encrypt using a master key managed by a Key Management Service (KMS)

>   For more information, see [documentation](/br/br-pitr-manual.md#encrypt-the-log-backup-data).

Author: @Tristan1900 @benmeadowcroft PTAL, thanks

> * TiKV encryption at rest supports Google [Key Management Service (Cloud KMS)](https://cloud.google.com/docs/security/key-management-deep-dive?hl) (GA) [#8906](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/8906) @[glorv](https://github.com/glorv)

Author: ```suggestion
* TiKV encryption at rest supports Google [Key Management Service (Cloud KMS)](https://cloud.google.com/docs/security/key-management-deep-dive?hl) (GA) [#8906](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/8906) @[glorv](https://github.com/glorv) tw@qiancai <!--1876-->
```

---
title: TiDB 8.5.0 Release Notes
summary: Learn about the new features, compatibility changes, improvements, and bug fixes in TiDB 8.5.0.
---

# TiDB 8.5.0 Release Notes

<EmailSubscriptionWrapper />

Release date: xx xx, 2024

TiDB version: 8.5.0

Quick access: [Quick start](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v8.5/quick-start-with-tidb) | [Production deployment](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v8.5/production-deployment-using-tiup)

TiDB 8.5.0 is a Long-Term Support Release (LTS).

Compared with the previous LTS 8.1.0, 8.5.0 includes new features, improvements, and bug fixes released in [8.2.0-DMR](/releases/release-8.2.0.md), [8.3.0-DMR](/releases/release-8.3.0.md), and [8.4.0-DMR](/releases/release-8.4.0.md). When you upgrade from 8.1.x to 8.5.0, you can download the [TiDB Release Notes PDF](https://download.pingcap.org/tidb-v8.1-to-v8.5-en-release-notes.pdf) to view all release notes between the two LTS versions. The following table lists some highlights from 8.1.0 to 8.5.0:

<table>
<thead>
  <tr>
    <th>分类</th>
    <th>功能</th>
    <th>描述</th>
  </tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
  <tr>

>     <td rowspan="6">可扩展性与性能</td>

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    <td rowspan="7">可扩展性与性能</td>
```

  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td><a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/zh/tidb/v8.5/system-variables#tidb_enable_instance_plan_cache-从-v840-版本开始引入">实例级执行计划缓存</a>（实验特性）（v8.4.0 引入）</td>
    <td>实例级执行计划缓存允许同一个 TiDB 实例的所有会话共享执行计划缓存。与现有的会话级执行计划缓存相比，实例级执行计划缓存能够在内存中缓存更多执行计划，减少 SQL 编译时间，从而降低 SQL 整体运行时间，提升 OLTP 的性能和吞吐，同时更好地控制内存使用，提升数据库稳定性。</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td><a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/zh/tidb/v8.5/partitioned-table#全局索引">分区表全局索引</a>（v8.4.0  起成为正式功能）</td>
    <td>全局索引可以有效提高检索非分区列的效率，并且消除了唯一键必须包含分区键的限制。该功能扩展了 TiDB 分区表的使用场景，避免了数据迁移过程中的一些应用修改工作。</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td><a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/zh/tidb/v8.5/system-variables#tidb_opt_projection_push_down-从-v610-版本开始引入">默认允许将 <code>Projection</code> 算子下推到存储引擎</a>（v8.3.0 引入）</td>
    <td> <code>Projection</code> 算子下推可以将负载分散到存储节点，同时减少节点间的数据传输。这有助于降低部分 SQL 的执行时间，提升数据库的整体性能。</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td><a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/zh/tidb/v8.5/statistics#收集部分列的统计信息">统计信息收集忽略不必要的列</a>（v8.3.0 引入）</td>
    <td> 在保证优化器能够获取到必要信息的前提下，加快了统计信息收集的速度，提升统计信息的时效性，进而保证选择最优的执行计划，提升集群性能。同时也降低了系统开销，改善了资源利用率。</td>
  </tr>

>   <tr>

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  <tr>
    <td><a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v8.5/tikv-in-memory-engine">MVCC 内存引擎</a></td>
    <td>MVCC 内存引擎通过将最新的 MVCC 版本缓存在内存中，并通过快速的 GC 机制删除内存中历史版本，从而提升 TiDB 的读性能，降低了 TiKV 扫描请求的 CPU 消耗。在遇到因 GC 时间过长导致 MVCC 版本堆积，影响读性能的时候，你可以开启 MVCC 内存引擎加速查询，提升读性能。</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
```

### Security

* BR supports client-side encryption of both full backup data and log backup data (GA) [#28640](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/28640) [#56433] (https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/56433) @[joccau](https://github.com/joccau) @[Tristan1900](https://github.com/Tristan1900) tw@qiancai <!--1998-->

    * Client-side encryption of full backup data (introduced as experimental in TiDB v5.3.0) enables you to encrypt backup data on the client side using a custom fixed key.

    * Client-side encryption of log backup data  (introduced as experimental in TiDB v8.4.0) enables you to encrypt log backup data on the client side using one of the following methods:

        * Encrypt using a custom fixed key
        * Encrypt using a master key stored on a local disk
        * Encrypt using a master key managed by a Key Management Service (KMS)

  Starting from v8.5.0, both features become generally available (GA), offering enhanced client-side data security.

    For more information, see [Encrypt the backup data](/br/br-snapshot-manual.md#encrypt-the-backup-data) and [Encrypt the log backup data](/br/br-pitr-manual.md#encrypt-the-log-backup-data).

> * TiKV encryption at rest supports Google [Key Management Service (Cloud KMS)](https://cloud.google.com/docs/security/key-management-deep-dive?hl) (GA) [#8906](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/8906) @[glorv](https://github.com/glorv)
> 
>     In v8.0.0, TiKV has supported this feature as an experimental feature. TiKV supports configuring Google Cloud KMS-based master keys for encryption at rest. Starting from v8.5.0, this feature is now Generally Avaialble.
>     To enable encryption at rest based on Google Cloud KMS, you need to create a key on Google Cloud and then configure the `[security.encryption.master-key]` section in the TiKV configuration file.

Author: ```suggestion
* TiKV encryption at rest supports Google [Key Management Service (Cloud KMS)](https://cloud.google.com/docs/security/key-management-deep-dive?hl) (GA) [#8906](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/8906) @[glorv](https://github.com/glorv) **tw@qiancai** <!--1876-->

    TiKV ensures data security by encrypting stored data using the encryption at rest technique. The core of encryption at rest for security is key management. In v8.0.0, TiKV encryption at rest supports Google Cloud KMS-based master key management as an experimental feature.

    Starting from v8.5.0, encryption at rest with Google Cloud KMS has become generally available (GA). To use this feature, you need to create a key on Google Cloud and then configure the `[security.encryption.master-key]` section in the TiKV configuration file.
```

---
title: TiDB 8.5.0 Release Notes
summary: Learn about the new features, compatibility changes, improvements, and bug fixes in TiDB 8.5.0.
---

# TiDB 8.5.0 Release Notes

<EmailSubscriptionWrapper />

Release date: xx xx, 2024

TiDB version: 8.5.0

Quick access: [Quick start](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v8.5/quick-start-with-tidb) | [Production deployment](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v8.5/production-deployment-using-tiup)

TiDB 8.5.0 is a Long-Term Support Release (LTS).

Compared with the previous LTS 8.1.0, 8.5.0 includes new features, improvements, and bug fixes released in [8.2.0-DMR](/releases/release-8.2.0.md), [8.3.0-DMR](/releases/release-8.3.0.md), and [8.4.0-DMR](/releases/release-8.4.0.md). When you upgrade from 8.1.x to 8.5.0, you can download the [TiDB Release Notes PDF](https://download.pingcap.org/tidb-v8.1-to-v8.5-en-release-notes.pdf) to view all release notes between the two LTS versions. The following table lists some highlights from 8.1.0 to 8.5.0:

<table>
<thead>
  <tr>

>     <th>分类</th>
>     <th>功能</th>
>     <th>描述</th>

Author: ```suggestion
    <th>Category</th>
    <th>Feature/Enhancement</th>
    <th>Description</th>
```

  </tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
  <tr>

>     <td rowspan="6">可扩展性与性能</td>

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
    <td rowspan="6">Scalability and Performance</td>
```

>     <td> 多维度降低数据处理延迟 **tw@qiancai**</td>
>     <td>通过不断挖掘数据处理的细节，TiDB 持续提升自身性能，力求满足金融场景对 SQL 处理时延的要求。 包括以下关键更新：
>     <li> 并行排序 (v8.2.0 引入) </li>
>     <li> 优化 KV 请求批处理策略 (v8.3.0 引入) </li>
>     <li> 并行获取 TSO (v8.4.0 引入) </li>
>     <li> 删除语句只获取必要的列 (v8.4.0 引入) </li>
>     <li> 优化缓存表场景性能 (v8.4.0 引入) </li>
>     <li> Hash Join 算法演进 (v8.4.0 引入) </li>

Author: ```suggestion
    <td> 多维度降低数据处理延迟 **tw@qiancai**</td>
    <td>TiDB 不断优化数据处理细节，持续提升性能，以更好地满足金融领域对 SQL 处理低延迟的高要求。 关键更新包括：
    <li> <a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/zh/tidb/v8.5/system-variables#tidb_executor_concurrency-从-v50-版本开始引入">并行排序</a> (v8.2.0 引入) </li>
    <li>  <a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/zh/tidb/v8.5/tidb-configuration-file#batch-policy-从-v830-版本开始引入">优化 KV 请求批处理策略</a> (v8.3.0 引入) </li>
    <li>  <a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/zh/tidb/v8.5/system-variables#tidb_tso_client_rpc_mode-从-v840-版本开始引入">并行获取 TSO</a> (v8.4.0 引入) </li>
    <li>  <a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/zh/tidb/v8.5/">删除语句只获取必要的列</a> (v8.4.0 引入) </li>
    <li>  优化<a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/zh/tidb/v8.4/cached-tables#缓存表">缓存表</a>场景性能</a> (v8.4.0 引入) </li>
    <li>  <a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/zh/tidb/v8.5/system-variables#tidb_hash_join_version-从-v840-版本开始引入">Hash Join 算法演进</a> (v8.4.0 引入) </li>
```

    </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td><a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v8.5/tune-region-performance#use-the-active-pd-follower-feature-to-enhance-the-scalability-of-pds-region-information-query-service">Use Active PD Followers to enhance PD's Region information query service</a> (GA in v8.5.0) **tw@Oreoxmt 2015**</td>
    <td>TiDB v7.6.0 introduces an experimental feature "Active PD Follower", which allows PD followers to provide Region information query services. This feature improves the capability of the PD cluster to handle <code>GetRegion</code> and <code>ScanRegions</code> requests in clusters with a large number of TiDB nodes and Regions, thereby reducing the CPU pressure on PD leaders. In v8.5.0, this feature becomes generally available (GA).</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>

>     <td><a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v8.5/system-variables#tidb_enable_instance_plan_cache-new-in-v840">Instance-level execution plan cache</a> (experimental) (introduced in v8.4.0) </td>

Author: ```suggestion
    <td><a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v8.5/system-variables#tidb_enable_instance_plan_cache-new-in-v840">Instance-level execution plan cache</a> (experimental，introduced in v8.4.0) </td>
```

>     <li> <a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/zh/tidb/v8.5/system-variables#tidb_executor_concurrency-new-in-v50">Support parallel sorting</a> (introduced in v8.2.0) </li>
>     <li>  <a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/zh/tidb/v8.5/tidb-configuration-file#batch-policy-new-in-v830">Optimize batch processing strategy for KV (key-value) requests </a> (introduced in v8.3.0) </li>
>     <li>  <a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v8.4/system-variables#tidb_tso_client_rpc_mode-new-in-v840">Support parallel mode for TSO requests</a> (introduced in v8.4.0) </li>
>     <li>Reduce the resource overhead of  <a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v8.5/sql-statement-delete">DELETE</a> operations (introduced in v8.4.0) </li>
>     <li>Improve query performance for <a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v8.5/cached-tables">cached tables</a> (introduced in v8.4.0) </li>
>     <li>  <a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/zh/tidb/v8.5/system-variables#tidb_hash_join_version-new-in-v840">Introduce an optimized version of Hash Join</a> (introduced in v8.4.0) </li>

Author: ```suggestion
    <li>Support <a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/zh/tidb/v8.5/system-variables#tidb_executor_concurrency-new-in-v50">parallel sorting</a> (introduced in v8.2.0) </li>
    <li>Optimize <a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/zh/tidb/v8.5/tidb-configuration-file#batch-policy-new-in-v830">batch processing strategy for KV (key-value) requests </a> (introduced in v8.3.0) </li>
    <li>Support <a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v8.4/system-variables#tidb_tso_client_rpc_mode-new-in-v840">parallel mode for TSO requests</a> (introduced in v8.4.0) </li>
    <li>Reduce the resource overhead of  <a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v8.5/sql-statement-delete">DELETE</a> operations (introduced in v8.4.0) </li>
    <li>Improve query performance for <a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v8.5/cached-tables">cached tables</a> (introduced in v8.4.0) </li>
    <li>Introduce <a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/zh/tidb/v8.5/system-variables#tidb_hash_join_version-new-in-v840">an optimized version of Hash Join</a> (introduced in v8.4.0) </li>
```

  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td><a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v8.5/system-variables#tidb_opt_projection_push_down-new-in-v610">Default pushdown of the <code>Projection</code> operator to the storage engine</a> (introduced in v8.3.0) </td>
    <td>Pushing the <code>Projection</code> operator down to the storage engine can distribute the load across storage nodes while reducing data transfer between nodes. This optimization helps to reduce the execution time for certain SQL queries and improves the overall database performance.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td><a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v8.5/statistics#collect-statistics-on-some-columns">Ignoring unnecessary columns when collecting statistics</a> (introduced in v8.3.0) </td>
    <td>Under the premise of ensuring that the optimizer can obtain the necessary information, TiDB speeds up statistics collection, improves the timeliness of statistics, and thus ensures that the optimal execution plan is selected, improving the performance of the cluster. Meanwhile, TiDB also reduces the system overhead and improves the resource utilization.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td rowspan="5">Reliability and availability</td>

>     <td>提升超大规模集群的稳定性 **tw@hfxsd 1976**</td>
>     <td>对于使用 TiDB 运行多租户应用或者 SaaS 应用的公司，经常需要存储大量的表，TiDB 在 v8.5.0 着力增强了大规模集群的稳定性。 <a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/zh/tidb/v8.5/schema-cache">Schema 缓存控制</a>以及<a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/zh/tidb/v8.5/system-variables#tidb_stats_cache_mem_quota-从-v610-版本开始引入">Stats 缓存控制</a>已经成为正式功能，减少了内存过度消耗带来的稳定性问题。 PD 通过 <a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/zh/tidb/v8.5/tune-region-performance#通过-active-pd-follower-提升-pd-region-信息查询服务的扩展能力">Active Follower</a> 应对大量 Region 带来的压力，并<a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/zh/tidb/v8.5/pd-microservices">将 PD 所承担的服务逐步解耦</a>，独立部署。通过<a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/zh/tidb/v8.5/system-variables#tidb_auto_analyze_concurrency-从-v840-版本开始引入">增加并发度</a>，以及<a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/zh/tidb/v8.5/statistics#收集部分列的统计信息">减少收集对象的数量</a>，统计信息收集和加载效率得到提升，保证了大集群执行计划的稳定性。</td>

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    <td>Improving the stability of large-scale clusters **tw@hfxsd 1976**</td>
    <td>Companies that use TiDB to run multi-tenant or SaaS applications often need to store a large number of tables. Iin v8.5.0 TiDB has made significant efforts to enhance the stability of large-scale clusters.  <a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v8.5/schema-cache">Schema cache control</a> and <a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v8.5/system-variables#tidb_stats_cache_mem_quota-new-in-v610">the memory quota for the TiDB statistics cache</a> become generally available (GA). They reduce stability problems caused by excessive memory consumption. PD uses <a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v8.5/tune-region-performance#use-the-active-pd-follower-feature-to-enhance-the-scalability-of-pds-region-information-query-service">Active Follower</a> to address the pressures of a large number of Regions. It also <a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v8.5/pd-microservices">It decouples the services undertaken by the PD</a> and deploys them independently. <a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/zh/tidb/v8.5/system-variables#tidb_auto_analyze_concurrency-new-in-v840">By increasing concurrency</a>, and <a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/zh/tidb/v8.5/statistics#collect-statistics-on-some-columns">reducing the number of collection objects</a>,  the efficiency of statistics collection and loading is improved, ensuring the stability of execution plans for large clusters.</td>
```

  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td><a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/zh/tidb/v8.5/tidb-resource-control#background-参数说明">支持为资源管控的后台任务设置资源使用上限</a> (实验特性)（v8.4.0 引入）</td>
    <td>为资源管控的后台任务设置百分比上限，针对不同业务系统的需求，控制后台任务的消耗，从而将后台任务的消耗限制在一个很低的水平，保证在线业务的服务质量。</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>Enhance and expand TiProxy use cases **tw@Oreoxmt**</td>
    <td>As a crucial component of the high availability of TiDB, <a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v8.5/tiproxy-overview">TiProxy</a> extends its capabilities beyond SQL traffic access and forwarding to support cluster change evaluation. Key features include:
    <li><a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v8.5/tiproxy-traffic-replay">TiProxy supports traffic capture and replay</a> (experimental, introduced in v8.4.0)</li>
    <li><a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v8.5/tiproxy-overview">	Built-in virtual IP management in TiProxy</a> (introduced in v8.3.0)</li>
    <li><a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v8.5/tiproxy-load-balance">TiProxy supports multiple load balancing policies</a> (introduced in v8.2.0)</li>
    </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>

>     <td><a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/zh/tidb/v8.5/system-variables#tidb_enable_parallel_hashagg_spill-从-v800-版本开始引入">并行 HashAgg 算法支持数据落盘</a> （v8.2.0 起成为正式功能）</td>
>     <td>HashAgg 是 TiDB 中常用的聚合算子，用于快速聚合具有相同字段值的行。TiDB v8.0.0 引入并行 HashAgg 作为实验特性，以进一步提升处理速度。当内存资源不足时，并行 HashAgg 可以将临时排序数据落盘，避免因内存使用过度而导致的 OOM 风险，从而提升查询性能和节点稳定性。该功能在 v8.2.0 成为正式功能，并默认开启，用户可以通过 <code>tidb_executor_concurrency</code> 安全地设置并行 HashAgg 的并发度。</td>
>   </tr>
>   <tr>
>     <td rowspan="2"> SQL </td>
>     <td>外键约束成为正式功能 **tw@lilin90 1894**</td>
>     <td>外键（Foreign Key）是数据库中的一种约束，用于建立表与表之间的关联关系，确保数据一致性和完整性。它可以限制子表中引用的数据必须存在于主表中，防止无效数据插入。同时，外键支持级联操作（如删除或更新时自动同步），简化了业务逻辑的实现，减少了手动维护数据关联的复杂性。</td>
>   </tr>
>   <tr>
>     <td>支持<a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/zh/tidb/v8.5/vector-search-overview">向量搜索功能</a>（实验特性）(v8.4.0 引入）</td>
>     <td>向量搜索是一种基于数据语义的搜索方法，可以提供更相关的搜索结果。作为 AI 和大语言模型 (LLM) 的核心功能之一，向量搜索可用于检索增强生成 (Retrieval-Augmented Generation, RAG)、语义搜索、推荐系统等多种场景。</td>
>   </tr>
>   <tr>
>     <td rowspan="3">数据库管理与可观测性</td>
>     <td><a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/zh/tidb/v8.5/information-schema-processlist">在内存表中显示 TiKV 和 TiDB 的 CPU 时间</a> （v8.4.0 引入）</td>
>     <td>将 CPU 时间合入系统表中展示，与会话或 SQL 的其他指标并列，方便你从多角度对高 CPU 消耗的操作进行观测，提升诊断效率。尤其适用于诊断实例 CPU 飙升或集群读写热点等场景。</td>
>   </tr>
>   <tr>
>     <td><a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/zh/tidb/v8.5/top-sql#使用-top-sql">按表或数据库维度聚合 TiKV 消耗的 CPU 时间</a>（v8.4.0 引入）</td>
>     <td>当热点问题不是由个别 SQL 语句引起时，利用 Top SQL 中按表或者数据库聚合的 CPU 时间，能够协助用户快速发现造成热点的表或者应用程序，从而大大提升热点问题和 CPU 消耗问题的诊断效率。</td>
>   </tr>

Author: ```suggestion
    <td><a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v8.5/system-variables#tidb_enable_parallel_hashagg_spill-new-in-v800">The parallel HashAgg algorithm of TiDB supports disk spill</a> （GA in v8.2.0）</td>
    <td>HashAgg is a widely used aggregation operator in TiDB for efficiently aggregating rows with the same field values. TiDB v8.0.0 introduces parallel HashAgg as an experimental feature to further enhance processing speed. When memory resources are insufficient, parallel HashAgg spills temporary sorted data to disk, avoiding potential OOM risks caused by excessive memory usage. This improves query performance while maintaining node stability. In v8.2.0, this feature becomes generally available (GA) and is enabled by default, enabling you to safely configure the concurrency of parallel HashAgg using <code>tidb_executor_concurrency</code>.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td rowspan="2"> SQL </td>
    <td>外键约束成为正式功能 **tw@lilin90 1894**</td>
    <td>外键（Foreign Key）是数据库中的一种约束，用于建立表与表之间的关联关系，确保数据一致性和完整性。它可以限制子表中引用的数据必须存在于主表中，防止无效数据插入。同时，外键支持级联操作（如删除或更新时自动同步），简化了业务逻辑的实现，减少了手动维护数据关联的复杂性。</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td><a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v8.4/vector-search-overview">Vector search</a> (experimental)（实验特性）(v8.4.0 引入）</td>
    <td>Vector search is a search method based on data semantics, which provides more relevant search results. As one of the core functions of AI and large language models (LLMs), vector search can be used in various scenarios such as Retrieval-Augmented Generation (RAG), semantic search, and recommendation systems.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td rowspan="3">数据库管理与可观测性</td>
    <td><a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v8.5/information-schema-processlist">Display TiKV and TiDB CPU times in memory tables</a> （v8.4.0 引入）</td>
    <td>The CPU time is now integrated into a system table, displayed alongside other metrics for sessions or SQL, letting you observe high CPU consumption operations from multiple perspectives, and improving diagnostic efficiency. This is especially useful for diagnosing scenarios such as CPU spikes in instances or read/write hotspots in clusters.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td><a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v8.5/top-sql#use-top-sql">Support viewing aggregated TiKV CPU time by table or database</a>（v8.4.0 引入）</td>
    <td>When hotspot issues are not caused by individual SQL statements, using the aggregated CPU time by table or database level in Top SQL can help you quickly identify the tables or applications responsible for the hotspots, significantly improving the efficiency of diagnosing hotspot and CPU consumption issues. </td>
  </tr>
```

  <tr>

>     <td><a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/zh/tidb/v8.5/backup-and-restore-storages#鉴权">支持对开启了 IMDSv2 服务的 TiKV 实例做备份</a> （v8.4.0 引入）</td>
>     <td><a href="https://aws.amazon.com/cn/blogs/security/get-the-full-benefits-of-imdsv2-and-disable-imdsv1-across-your-aws-infrastructure/">目前 AWS EC2 的默认元数据服务是 IMDSv2</a>。TiDB 支持从开启了 IMDSv2 的 TiKV 实例中备份数据，协助你更好地在公有云服务中运行 TiDB 集群。</td>
>   </tr>
>   <tr>
>     <td rowspan="1">安全</td>
>     <td><a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/zh/tidb/v8.5/br-pitr-manual#加密日志备份数据">日志备份数据支持客户端加密</a></td>
>     <td>在上传日志备份到备份存储之前，你可以对日志备份数据进行加密，确保数据在存储和传输过程中的安全性。</td>
>   </tr>
> </tbody>

Author: ```suggestion
    <td><a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v8.4/backup-and-restore-storages#authentication">Support backing up TiKV instances with IMDSv2 service enabled</a> (introduced in v8.4.0) </td>
    <td><<a href="https://aws.amazon.com/cn/blogs/security/get-the-full-benefits-of-imdsv2-and-disable-imdsv1-across-your-aws-infrastructure/">AWS EC2 now uses IMDSv2 as the default metadata service</a>. TiDB supports backing up data from TiKV instances that have IMDSv2 enabled, helping you run TiDB clusters more effectively in public cloud services.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td rowspan="1">Security</td>
    <td>Client-side encryption of <a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v8.4/br-snapshot-manual#encrypt-the-backup-data">snapshot backup data</a>和<a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v8.4/br-pitr-manual#encrypt-log-backup-data">log backup data</a> (introduced in v8.5.0)**tw@qiancai 1998**</td>
    <td>Before uploading backup data to your backup storage, you can encrypt the backup data to ensure its security during storage and transmission.</td>
  </tr>
</tbody>
```

>     <td>Foreign key (GA in v8.5.0) **tw@lilin90 1894**</td>

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
    <td><a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v8.5/foreign-key">Foreign key</a> (GA in v8.5.0) **tw@lilin90 1894**</td>
```

>     <td><<a href="https://aws.amazon.com/cn/blogs/security/get-the-full-benefits-of-imdsv2-and-disable-imdsv1-across-your-aws-infrastructure/">AWS EC2 now uses IMDSv2 as the default metadata service</a>. TiDB supports backing up data from TiKV instances that have IMDSv2 enabled, helping you run TiDB clusters more effectively in public cloud services.</td>

Author: ```suggestion
    <td><a href="https://aws.amazon.com/cn/blogs/security/get-the-full-benefits-of-imdsv2-and-disable-imdsv1-across-your-aws-infrastructure/">AWS EC2 now uses IMDSv2 as the default metadata service</a>. TiDB supports backing up data from TiKV instances that have IMDSv2 enabled, helping you run TiDB clusters more effectively in public cloud services.</td>
```

>     <td>Client-side encryption of <a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v8.5/br-snapshot-manual#encrypt-the-backup-data">snapshot backup data</a>和<a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v8.5/br-pitr-manual#encrypt-log-backup-data">log backup data</a> (GA in v8.5.0)**tw@qiancai 1998**</td>

Author: ```suggestion
    <td>Client-side encryption of <a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v8.5/br-snapshot-manual#encrypt-the-backup-data">snapshot backup data</a> and <a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v8.5/br-pitr-manual#encrypt-log-backup-data">log backup data</a> (GA in v8.5.0)**tw@qiancai 1998**</td>
```

    For more information, see [Documentation](link).

* TiDB accelerated table creation becomes generally available (GA), significantly reducing data migration and cluster initialization time [#50052](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/50052) @[D3Hunter](https://github.com/D3Hunter) @[gmhdbjd](https://github.com/gmhdbjd) tw@Oreoxmt <!--1977-->

    TiDB v7.6.0 introduces accelerated table creation as an experimental feature, controlled by the system variable [`tidb_ddl_version`](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v7.6/system-variables#tidb_ddl_version-new-in-v760). Staring from v8.0.0, this system variable is renamed to [`tidb_enable_fast_create_table`](/system-variables.md#tidb_enable_fast_create_table-new-in-v800).

    In v8.5.0, TiDB accelerated table creation becomes generally available (GA) and is enabled by default. During data migration and cluster initialization, this feature supports rapid creation of millions of tables, significantly reducing operation time.

    For more information, see [Documentation](/accelerated-table-creation.md).

### Reliability

> * Support configuring the rate limit and concurrency for gRPC API requests sent to PD [#5739](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/5739) @[rleungx](https://github.com/rleungx) **tw@qiancai** <!--2018-->
> 
>     When a sudden influx of requests is sent to PD, it can lead to high workloads and potentially affect PD performance. Starting from v8.5.0, you can use [`pd-ctl`](/pd-control.md) to configure rate limits and concurrency for gRPC API requests sent to PD, improving its stability.

Author: ```suggestion
* Support configuring the rate limit and concurrency of gRPC API requests processed by PD [#5739](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/5739) @[rleungx](https://github.com/rleungx) **tw@qiancai** <!--2018-->

    When a sudden influx of requests is sent to PD, it can lead to high workloads and potentially affect PD performance. Starting from v8.5.0, you can use [`pd-ctl`](/pd-control.md) to configure rate limits and concurrency of gRPC API requests processed by PD, improving its stability.
```

>     For more information, see [Documentation](/schema-cache.md).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    For more information, see [documentation](/schema-cache.md).
```

> 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion

* TiKV MVCC In-memory Engine (IME) becomes generally available (GA). It can accelerate queries that require scanning of a large number of MVCC historical versions. [#16141](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/16141) [@SpadeA-Tang](https://github.com/SpadeA-Tang) [@glorv](https://github.com/glorv) [@overvenus](https://github.com/overvenus)

    In scenarios where records are updated frequently or TiDB is required to retain historical versions for a long period of time ( for example, 24 hours), a buildup of MVCC versions can lead to degradation of scanning performance. TiKV MVCC In-memory Engine improves scanning performance by caching the most recent MVCC versions in memory and deleting the historical versions from memory through a fast GC mechanism.

    Starting from v8.5.0, TiKV MVCC In-memory Engine becomes generally available (GA). When scanning performance is degraded due to the buildup of MVCC versions in a TiKV cluster, you can enable the TiKV MVCC memory engine to improve scanning performance by setting the TiKV configuration parameter [`in-memory-engine.enable`](/tikv-in-memory-engine.md#usage).

    For more information, see [Documentation](/tikv-in-memory-engine.md).
```

Reviewer 3: @overvenus PTAL

Reviewer 7: LGTM

    Provide a concise overview of what the feature is, the value it offers to users, and include a brief sentence on how to use it effectively. If there are any particularly important aspects of this feature, be sure to mention them as well.

    For more information, see [Documentation](link).

### Security

* BR supports client-side encryption of both full backup data and log backup data (GA) [#28640](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/28640) [#56433] (https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/56433) @[joccau](https://github.com/joccau) @[Tristan1900](https://github.com/Tristan1900) tw@qiancai <!--1998-->

    * Client-side encryption of full backup data (introduced as experimental in TiDB v5.3.0) enables you to encrypt backup data on the client side using a custom fixed key.

    * Client-side encryption of log backup data  (introduced as experimental in TiDB v8.4.0) enables you to encrypt log backup data on the client side using one of the following methods:

        * Encrypt using a custom fixed key
        * Encrypt using a master key stored on a local disk
        * Encrypt using a master key managed by a Key Management Service (KMS)

>   Starting from v8.5.0, both features become generally available (GA), offering enhanced client-side data security.

Author: ```suggestion
  Starting from v8.5.0, both encryption features become generally available (GA), offering enhanced client-side data security.
```

---
title: TiDB 8.5.0 Release Notes
summary: Learn about the new features, compatibility changes, improvements, and bug fixes in TiDB 8.5.0.
---

# TiDB 8.5.0 Release Notes

<EmailSubscriptionWrapper />

Release date: xx xx, 2024

TiDB version: 8.5.0

Quick access: [Quick start](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v8.5/quick-start-with-tidb) | [Production deployment](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v8.5/production-deployment-using-tiup)

TiDB 8.5.0 is a Long-Term Support Release (LTS).

Compared with the previous LTS 8.1.0, 8.5.0 includes new features, improvements, and bug fixes released in [8.2.0-DMR](/releases/release-8.2.0.md), [8.3.0-DMR](/releases/release-8.3.0.md), and [8.4.0-DMR](/releases/release-8.4.0.md). When you upgrade from 8.1.x to 8.5.0, you can download the [TiDB Release Notes PDF](https://download.pingcap.org/tidb-v8.1-to-v8.5-en-release-notes.pdf) to view all release notes between the two LTS versions. The following table lists some highlights from 8.1.0 to 8.5.0:

<table>
<thead>
  <tr>
    <th>Category</th>
    <th>Feature/Enhancement</th>
    <th>Description</th>
  </tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
  <tr>
    <td rowspan="6">Scalability and Performance</td>

>     <td> Reduce data processing latency in multiple dimensions **tw@qiancai**</td>

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
    <td>Reduce data processing latency in multiple dimensions **tw@qiancai**</td>
```

>     <td>TiDB continuously refines data processing to enhance performance, effectively meeting the low-latency SQL processing requirements in financial scenarios. Key updates include: 

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
    <td>TiDB continuously refines data processing to improve performance, effectively meeting the low-latency SQL processing requirements in financial scenarios. Key updates include: 
```

    <li>Support <a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/zh/tidb/v8.5/system-variables#tidb_executor_concurrency-new-in-v50">parallel sorting</a> (introduced in v8.2.0) </li>
    <li>Optimize <a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/zh/tidb/v8.5/tidb-configuration-file#batch-policy-new-in-v830">batch processing strategy for KV (key-value) requests </a> (introduced in v8.3.0) </li>

>     <li>Support <a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v8.4/system-variables#tidb_tso_client_rpc_mode-new-in-v840">parallel mode for TSO requests</a> (introduced in v8.4.0) </li>
>     <li>Reduce the resource overhead of  <a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v8.5/sql-statement-delete">DELETE</a> operations (introduced in v8.4.0) </li>

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
    <li>Support <a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v8.5/system-variables#tidb_tso_client_rpc_mode-new-in-v840">parallel mode for TSO requests</a> (introduced in v8.4.0) </li>
    <li>Reduce the resource overhead of <a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v8.5/sql-statement-delete">DELETE</a> operations (introduced in v8.4.0) </li>
```

    <td>Pushing the <code>Projection</code> operator down to the storage engine can distribute the load across storage nodes while reducing data transfer between nodes. This optimization helps to reduce the execution time for certain SQL queries and improves the overall database performance.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td><a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v8.5/statistics#collect-statistics-on-some-columns">Ignoring unnecessary columns when collecting statistics</a> (introduced in v8.3.0) </td>
    <td>Under the premise of ensuring that the optimizer can obtain the necessary information, TiDB speeds up statistics collection, improves the timeliness of statistics, and thus ensures that the optimal execution plan is selected, improving the performance of the cluster. Meanwhile, TiDB also reduces the system overhead and improves the resource utilization.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td rowspan="5">Reliability and availability</td>
    <td>Improve the stability of large-scale clusters **tw@hfxsd 1976**</td>

>     <td>Companies that use TiDB to run multi-tenant or SaaS applications often need to store a large number of tables. In TiDB v8.5.0, significant efforts have been made to enhance the stability of large-scale clusters. <a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v8.5/schema-cache">Schema cache control</a> and <a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v8.5/system-variables#tidb_stats_cache_mem_quota-new-in-v610">the memory quota for the TiDB statistics cache</a> become generally available (GA). They reduce stability problems caused by excessive memory consumption. PD uses <a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v8.5/tune-region-performance#use-the-active-pd-follower-feature-to-enhance-the-scalability-of-pds-region-information-query-service">Active Follower</a> to address the pressures of a large number of Regions. It also <a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v8.5/pd-microservices">decouples the services undertaken by the PD</a> and deploys them independently. <a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/zh/tidb/v8.5/system-variables#tidb_auto_analyze_concurrency-new-in-v840">By increasing concurrency</a>, and <a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/zh/tidb/v8.5/statistics#collect-statistics-on-some-columns">reducing the number of collection objects</a>, the efficiency of statistics collection and loading is improved, ensuring the stability of execution plans for large clusters.</td>

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    <td>Companies that use TiDB to run multi-tenant or SaaS applications often need to store a large number of tables. In TiDB v8.5.0, significant efforts have been made to enhance the stability of large-scale clusters. <a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v8.5/schema-cache">Schema cache control</a> and <a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v8.5/system-variables#tidb_stats_cache_mem_quota-new-in-v610">the memory quota for the TiDB statistics cache</a> become generally available (GA). They reduce stability problems caused by excessive memory consumption. PD uses <a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v8.5/tune-region-performance#use-the-active-pd-follower-feature-to-enhance-the-scalability-of-pds-region-information-query-service">Active Follower</a> to address the pressures of a large number of Regions. It also <a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v8.5/pd-microservices">decouples the services undertaken by the PD</a> and deploys them independently. You can <a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/zh/tidb/v8.5/system-variables#tidb_auto_analyze_concurrency-new-in-v840">increase concurrency</a> and <a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/zh/tidb/v8.5/statistics#collect-statistics-on-some-columns">reduce the number of collection objects</a> to improve the efficiency of statistics collection and loading, ensuring the stability of execution plans for large clusters.</td>
```

    </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td><a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v8.5/system-variables#tidb_enable_parallel_hashagg_spill-new-in-v800">The parallel HashAgg algorithm of TiDB supports disk spill</a> (GA in v8.2.0) </td>
    <td>HashAgg is a widely used aggregation operator in TiDB for efficiently aggregating rows with the same field values. TiDB v8.0.0 introduces parallel HashAgg as an experimental feature to further enhance processing speed. When memory resources are insufficient, parallel HashAgg spills temporary sorted data to disk, avoiding potential OOM risks caused by excessive memory usage. This improves query performance while maintaining node stability. In v8.2.0, this feature becomes generally available (GA) and is enabled by default, enabling you to safely configure the concurrency of parallel HashAgg using <code>tidb_executor_concurrency</code>.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td rowspan="2"> SQL </td>
    <td><a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v8.5/foreign-key">Foreign key</a> (GA in v8.5.0) **tw@lilin90 1894**</td>

>     <td>Foreign keys are constraints in a database that establish relationships between tables, ensuring data consistency and integrity. They restrict the data referenced in a child table to exist in the parent table, preventing the insertion of invalid data. Foreign keys also support cascading operations (such as automatic synchronization during deletion or update), simplifying business logic implementation and reducing the complexity of manually maintaining data relationships.</td>

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    <td>Foreign keys are constraints in a database that establish relationships between tables, ensuring data consistency and integrity. They ensure that the data referenced in a child table exist in the parent table, preventing the insertion of invalid data. Foreign keys also support cascading operations (such as automatic synchronization during deletion or update), simplifying business logic implementation and reducing the complexity of manually maintaining data relationships.</td>
```

    <td>Before uploading backup data to your backup storage, you can encrypt the backup data to ensure its security during storage and transmission.</td>
  </tr>
</tbody>
</table>

## Feature details

### Scalability

* The schema cache memory limit feature is now generally available (GA), reducing memory usage in scenarios with hundreds of thousands or even millions of databases or tables. [#50959](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/50959) @[tiancaiamao](https://github.com/tiancaiamao) @[wjhuang2016](https://github.com/wjhuang2016) @[gmhdbjd](https://github.com/gmhdbjd) @[tangenta](https://github.com/tangenta) tw@hfxsd <!--1976-->

    In some SaaS scenarios, when the number of tables reaches hundreds of thousands or even millions, the schema meta can consume significant memory. Enabling this feature allows TiDB to use the LRU algorithm to cache and evict the corresponding schema meta information, effectively reducing memory usage. 
    

>     Starting from v8.4.0, this feature is enabled by default with a default value of `536870912` (that is, 512MiB). You can adjust it as needed through the variable [`tidb_schema_cache_size`](/system-variables.md#tidb_schema_cache_size-new-in-v800).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    Starting from v8.4.0, this feature is enabled by default with a default value of `536870912` (that is, 512 MiB). You can adjust it as needed through the variable [`tidb_schema_cache_size`](/system-variables.md#tidb_schema_cache_size-new-in-v800).
```

    For more information, see [documentation](/schema-cache.md).

> * Use the Active PD Follower feature to enhance the scalability of PD's Region information query service (GA) [#7431](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/7431) @[okJiang](https://github.com/okJiang) tw@Oreoxmt <!--2015-->

Author: ```suggestion
* Provide the Active PD Follower feature to enhance the scalability of PD's Region information query service (GA) [#7431](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/7431) @[okJiang](https://github.com/okJiang) tw@Oreoxmt <!--2015-->
```

* TiKV supports MVCC In-memory Engine (IME). It can accelerate queries that require scanning of a large number of MVCC historical versions. [#16141](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/16141) [@SpadeA-Tang](https://github.com/SpadeA-Tang) [@glorv](https://github.com/glorv) [@overvenus](https://github.com/overvenus)

    In scenarios where records are updated frequently or TiDB is required to retain historical versions for a long period of time (for example, 24 hours), a buildup of MVCC versions can lead to degradation of scanning performance. TiKV MVCC In-memory Engine improves scanning performance by caching the most recent MVCC versions in memory and deleting the historical versions from memory through a fast GC mechanism.

    Starting from v8.5.0, TiKV introduces MVCC In-memory Engine. When scanning performance is degraded due to the buildup of MVCC versions in a TiKV cluster, you can enable the TiKV MVCC memory engine to improve scanning performance by setting the TiKV configuration parameter [`in-memory-engine.enable`](/tikv-in-memory-engine.md#usage).

    For more information, see [documentation](/tikv-in-memory-engine.md).

> ### Reliability

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion

### Reliability
```

* Support limiting the maximum rate and concurrency of requests processed by PD [#5739](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/5739) @[rleungx](https://github.com/rleungx) **tw@qiancai** <!--2018-->

    When a sudden influx of requests is sent to PD, it can lead to high workloads and potentially affect PD performance. Starting from v8.5.0, you can use [`pd-ctl`](/pd-control.md) to limit the maximum rate and concurrency of requests processed by PD, improving its stability.

>     For more information, see [Documentation](/pd-control.md).

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
    For more information, see [documentation](/pd-control.md).
```

    Provide a concise overview of what the feature is, the value it offers to users, and include a brief sentence on how to use it effectively. If there are any particularly important aspects of this feature, be sure to mention them as well.

    For more information, see [Documentation](link).

* Support foreign keys (GA) [#36982](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/36982) @[YangKeao](https://github.com/YangKeao) @[crazycs520](https://github.com/crazycs520) tw@lilin90 <!--1894-->

    The foreign key feature becomes generally available (GA) in v8.5.0. Foreign key constraints help ensure data consistency and integrity. You can easily establish foreign key relationships between tables, with support for cascading updates and deletions, simplifying data management. This feature enhances support for applications with complex data relationships.

    For more information, see [Documentation](/foreign-key.md).

* Introduce the `ADMIN ALTER DDL JOBS` statement to support modifying the DDL jobs online [#57229](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/57229) @[fzzf678](https://github.com/fzzf678) @[tangenta](https://github.com/tangenta) tw@hfxsd <!--2016--> 

>     Starting from v8.3.0, you can set the variables [`tidb_ddl_reorg_batch_size`](/system-variables#tidb_ddl_reorg_batch_size)  and [`tidb_ddl_reorg_worker_cnt`](/system-variables#tidb_ddl_reorg_worker_cnt) at the session level. As a result, setting these two variables globally no longer affects all running DDL jobs. To modify the values of these variables, you need to cancel the DDL job first, adjust the variables, and then resubmit the job.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    Starting from v8.3.0, you can set the variables [`tidb_ddl_reorg_batch_size`](/system-variables#tidb_ddl_reorg_batch_size) and [`tidb_ddl_reorg_worker_cnt`](/system-variables#tidb_ddl_reorg_worker_cnt) at the session level. As a result, setting these two variables globally no longer affects all running DDL jobs. To modify the values of these variables, you need to cancel the DDL job first, adjust the variables, and then resubmit the job.
```

    TiDB v8.5.0 introduces the `ADMIN ALTER DDL JOBS` statement, allowing online adjustment of variable values for specific DDL jobs. This enables flexible balancing of resource consumption and performance, with changes limited to an individual job, making the impact more controllable. For example:

    - `ADMIN ALTER DDL JOBS job_id THREAD = 8;`: adjusts the `tidb_ddl_reorg_worker_cnt` for the specified DDL task.
    - `ADMIN ALTER DDL JOBS job_id BATCH_SIZE = 256;`: adjusts the `tidb_ddl_reorg_batch_size` for the specified DDL task.
    - `ADMIN ALTER DDL JOBS job_id MAX_WRITE_SPEED = '200MiB';`: adjusts the write traffic size for index data on each TiKV node.

>   For more information, see [Documentation](/sql-statements/sql-statement-admin-alter-ddl.md).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  For more information, see [documentation](/sql-statements/sql-statement-admin-alter-ddl.md).
```

### DB operations

* Placeholder for feature summary [#Issue-number](issue-link) @[Contributor-GitHub-ID](id-link) **tw@xxx** <!--1234-->

    Provide a concise overview of what the feature is, the value it offers to users, and include a brief sentence on how to use it effectively. If there are any particularly important aspects of this feature, be sure to mention them as well.

    For more information, see [Documentation](link).

### Observability

* Placeholder for feature summary [#Issue-number](issue-link) @[Contributor-GitHub-ID](id-link) **tw@xxx** <!--1234-->

    Provide a concise overview of what the feature is, the value it offers to users, and include a brief sentence on how to use it effectively. If there are any particularly important aspects of this feature, be sure to mention them as well.

    For more information, see [Documentation](link).

### Security

> * BR supports client-side encryption of both full backup data and log backup data (GA) [#28640](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/28640) [#56433] (https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/56433) @[joccau](https://github.com/joccau) @[Tristan1900](https://github.com/Tristan1900) tw@qiancai <!--1998-->

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
* BR supports client-side encryption of both full backup data and log backup data (GA) [#28640](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/28640) [#56433](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/56433) @[joccau](https://github.com/joccau) @[Tristan1900](https://github.com/Tristan1900) tw@qiancai <!--1998-->
```

    * Client-side encryption of full backup data (introduced as experimental in TiDB v5.3.0) enables you to encrypt backup data on the client side using a custom fixed key.

>     * Client-side encryption of log backup data  (introduced as experimental in TiDB v8.4.0) enables you to encrypt log backup data on the client side using one of the following methods:

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
    * Client-side encryption of log backup data (introduced as experimental in TiDB v8.4.0) enables you to encrypt log backup data on the client side using one of the following methods:
```

        * Encrypt using a custom fixed key
        * Encrypt using a master key stored on a local disk
        * Encrypt using a master key managed by a Key Management Service (KMS)

  Starting from v8.5.0, both encryption features become generally available (GA), offering enhanced client-side data security.

    For more information, see [Encrypt the backup data](/br/br-snapshot-manual.md#encrypt-the-backup-data) and [Encrypt the log backup data](/br/br-pitr-manual.md#encrypt-the-log-backup-data).

> * TiKV encryption at rest supports Google [Key Management Service (Cloud KMS)](https://cloud.google.com/docs/security/key-management-deep-dive?hl) (GA) [#8906](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/8906) @[glorv](https://github.com/glorv) **tw@qiancai** <!--1876-->

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
* TiKV encryption at rest supports [Google Cloud Key Management Service (Google Cloud KMS)](https://cloud.google.com/docs/security/key-management-deep-dive) (GA) [#8906](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/8906) @[glorv](https://github.com/glorv) **tw@qiancai** <!--1876-->
```

- The `ALTER TABLE ... DROP FOREIGN KEY IF EXISTS ...` statement is no longer supported. [#56703](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/56703) @[YangKeao](https://github.com/YangKeao)

### System variables

| Variable name | Change type | Description |
|--------|------------------------------|------|
| [`tidb_enable_fast_create_table`](/system-variables.md#tidb_enable_fast_create_table-new-in-v800) | Modified | Changes the default value from `OFF` to `ON` after further tests, meaning that the [accelerated table creation](/accelerated-table-creation.md) feature is enabled by default. |
| [`tidb_ddl_reorg_max_write_speed`](/system-variables.md#tidb_ddl_reorg_max_write_speed-new-in-v850)  | Newly added | Limits the write bandwidth for each TiKV node and only takes effect when index creation acceleration is enabled (controlled by the [`tidb_ddl_enable_fast_reorg`](#tidb_ddl_enable_fast_reorg-new-in-v630) variable). For example, setting the variable to `200MiB` limits the maximum write speed to 200 MiB/s.  |

### Configuration parameters

| Configuration file or component | Configuration parameter | Change type | Description |
| -------- | -------- | -------- | -------- |

> | TiDB | [`deprecate-integer-display-length`](/tidb-configuration-file.md#deprecate-integer-display-length) | Modified | Starting with v8.5.0, the integer display width feature is deprecated. The default value of this configuration item is changed from `false` to `true`. |

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
| TiDB | [`deprecate-integer-display-length`](/tidb-configuration-file.md#deprecate-integer-display-length) | Modified | Starting from v8.5.0, the integer display width feature is deprecated. The default value of this configuration item is changed from `false` to `true`. |
```

| TiKV | [`raft-client-queue-size`](/tikv-configuration-file.md#raft-client-queue-size) | Modified | Changes the default value from `8192` to `16384`. |

## Deprecated features

The following features are planned for deprecation in future versions:

> * TiDB introduces the system variable [`tidb_enable_auto_analyze_priority_queue`](/system-variables.md#tidb_enable_auto_analyze_priority_queue-new-in-v800), which controls whether priority queues are enabled to optimize the ordering of tasks that automatically collect statistics. In future releases, the priority queue will be the only way to order tasks for automatically collecting statistics, so this system variable will be deprecated.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* TiDB introduces the system variable [`tidb_enable_auto_analyze_priority_queue`](/system-variables.md#tidb_enable_auto_analyze_priority_queue-new-in-v800) that controls whether priority queues are enabled to optimize the ordering of tasks that automatically collect statistics. In future releases, the priority queue will be the only way to order tasks for automatically collecting statistics, so this system variable will be deprecated.
```

> * TiDB introduces the system variable [`tidb_enable_async_merge_global_stats`](/system-variables.md#tidb_enable_async_merge_global_stats-new-in-v750) in v7.5.0. You can use it to set TiDB to use asynchronous merging of partition statistics to avoid OOM issues. In future releases, partition statistics will be merged asynchronously, so this system variable will be deprecated.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* In v7.5.0, TiDB introduces the system variable [`tidb_enable_async_merge_global_stats`](/system-variables.md#tidb_enable_async_merge_global_stats-new-in-v750). You can use it to set TiDB to use asynchronous merging of partition statistics to avoid OOM issues. In future releases, partition statistics will be merged asynchronously, so this system variable will be deprecated.
```

* It is planned to redesign [the automatic evolution of execution plan bindings](/sql-plan-management.md#baseline-evolution) in subsequent releases, and the related variables and behavior will change.

> * In v8.0.0, TiDB introduces the [`tidb_enable_parallel_hashagg_spill`](/system-variables.md#tidb_enable_parallel_hashagg_spill-new-in-v800) system variable to control whether TiDB supports disk spill for the concurrent HashAgg algorithm. In future versions, the [`tidb_enable_parallel_hashagg_spill`](/system-variables.md#tidb_enable_parallel_hashagg_spill-new-in-v800) system variable will be deprecated.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* In v8.0.0, TiDB introduces the [`tidb_enable_parallel_hashagg_spill`](/system-variables.md#tidb_enable_parallel_hashagg_spill-new-in-v800) system variable to control whether TiDB supports disk spill for the concurrent HashAgg algorithm. In future versions, this system variable will be deprecated.
```

    - Fix the issue that TiKV might panic when executing queries containing `RADIANS()` or `DEGREES()` functions [#17852](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/17852) @[gengliqi](https://github.com/gengliqi)
    - Fix the issue that write jitter might occur when all hibernated Regions are awakened [#17101](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/17101) @[hhwyt](https://github.com/hhwyt)

+ PD <!--tw@hfxsd: 3 notes-->

    - (dup): release-7.1.6.md > Bug fixes> PD - Fix the memory leak issue in hotspot cache [#8698](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/8698) @[lhy1024](https://github.com/lhy1024)
    - Fix the issue that the resource group selector does not take effect on any panel [#56572](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/56572) @[glorv](https://github.com/glorv)
    - Fix the issue that deleted resource groups still appear in the monitoring panel [#8716](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/8716) @[AndreMouche](https://github.com/AndreMouche)
    - Fix unclear log descriptions during the Region syncer loading process [#8717](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/8717) @[lhy1024](https://github.com/lhy1024)

> 

Author: ```suggestion
    - (dup): release-7.1.6.md > Bug fixes> PD - Fix the memory leak issue in label statistics [#8700](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/8700) @[lhy1024](https://github.com/lhy1024)
    - Fix the issue that configuring `tidb_enable_tso_follower_proxy` to `0` or `OFF` fails to disable the TSO Follower Proxy feature [#8709](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/8709) @[JmPotato](https://github.com/JmPotato)

    - Fix the issue that the `REPLACE()` function returns an error when the first parameter is a constant [#9522](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/9522) @[guo-shaoge](https://github.com/guo-shaoge)
    - Fix the issue that `LPAD()` and `RPAD()` functions return incorrect results in some cases [#9465](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/9465) @[guo-shaoge](https://github.com/guo-shaoge)

+ Tools

    + Backup & Restore (BR) <!--tw@hfxsd: 4 notes-->

        - Fix the OOM issue during backups when there are too many uncompleted range gaps, reducing the amount of pre-allocated memory [#53529](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/53529) @[Leavrth](https://github.com/Leavrth)
        - Fix the issue that global indexes cannot be backed up [#57469](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/57469) @[Defined2014](https://github.com/Defined2014)
        - Fix the issue that logs might print out encrypted information [#57585](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/57585) @[kennytm](https://github.com/kennytm)

>         - Fix the issue that the advancer cannot handle lock conflicts [#57134](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/57134) @[3pointer](https://github.com/3pointer)

Author: ```suggestion
        - Fix the issue that the advancer cannot handle lock conflicts [#57134](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/57134) @[3pointer](https://github.com/3pointer)
        - Fix the issue that PITR tasks might fail for tables with millions of rows (https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/57743) @[Tristan1900](https://github.com/Tristan1900)
```

    - Optimize the execution plan in specific cases where an `OUTER JOIN` involves a unique index and an `ORDER BY ... LIMIT` clause, improving execution efficiency [#56321](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/56321) @[winoros](https://github.com/winoros)

+ TiKV <!--tw@hfxsd: 2 notes-->

    - Use a separate thread to clean up replicas, ensuring stable latency for critical paths of Raft reads and writes [#16001](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/16001) @[hbisheng](https://github.com/hbisheng)
    - Improve the performance of the vector distance function by supporting SIMD [#17290](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/17290) @[EricZequan](https://github.com/EricZequan)

+ PD <!--tw@qiancai: 2 notes-->

    - Support dynamic switching of the `tso` service between microservice and non-microservice modes [#8477](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/8477) @[rleungx](https://github.com/rleungx)
    - Optimize the case format of certain fields in the `pd-ctl config` output [#8694](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/8694) @[lhy1024](https://github.com/lhy1024)

> 

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
    - [Store limit v2](/configure-store-limit.md#principles-of-store-limit-v2) becomes generally available (GA) [#8865](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/8865) @[lhy1024](https://github.com/lhy1024)
    - Support configuring Region inspection concurrency [#8866](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/8866) @[lhy1024](https://github.com/lhy1024)

```

    - Fix the issue that the `REPLACE()` function returns an error when the first parameter is a constant [#9522](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/9522) @[guo-shaoge](https://github.com/guo-shaoge)
    - Fix the issue that `LPAD()` and `RPAD()` functions return incorrect results in some cases [#9465](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/9465) @[guo-shaoge](https://github.com/guo-shaoge)

+ Tools

    + Backup & Restore (BR) <!--tw@hfxsd: 4 notes-->

        - Fix the OOM issue during backups when there are too many uncompleted range gaps, reducing the amount of pre-allocated memory [#53529](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/53529) @[Leavrth](https://github.com/Leavrth)
        - Fix the issue that global indexes cannot be backed up [#57469](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/57469) @[Defined2014](https://github.com/Defined2014)
        - Fix the issue that logs might print out encrypted information [#57585](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/57585) @[kennytm](https://github.com/kennytm)
        - Fix the issue that the advancer cannot handle lock conflicts [#57134](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/57134) @[3pointer](https://github.com/3pointer)

>         - Fix the issue that PITR tasks might fail for tables with millions of rows (https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/57743) @[Tristan1900](https://github.com/Tristan1900)

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
        - Fix the issue that PITR tasks might fail for tables with millions of rows [#57743](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/57743) @[Tristan1900](https://github.com/Tristan1900)
```

  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td rowspan="3">DB Operations and Observability</td>
    <td><a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v8.5/information-schema-processlist">Display TiKV and TiDB CPU times in memory tables</a> (introduced in v8.4.0) </td>
    <td>The CPU time is now integrated into a system table, displayed alongside other metrics for sessions or SQL, letting you observe high CPU consumption operations from multiple perspectives, and improving diagnostic efficiency. This is especially useful for diagnosing scenarios such as CPU spikes in instances or read/write hotspots in clusters.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td><a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v8.5/top-sql#use-top-sql">Support viewing aggregated TiKV CPU time by table or database</a> (introduced in v8.4.0) </td>
    <td>When hotspot issues are not caused by individual SQL statements, using the aggregated CPU time by table or database level in Top SQL can help you quickly identify the tables or applications responsible for the hotspots, significantly improving the efficiency of diagnosing hotspot and CPU consumption issues. </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>

>     <td><a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v8.5/backup-and-restore-storages#authentication">Support backing up TiKV instances with IMDSv2 service enabled</a> (introduced in v8.4.0) </td>
>     <td><a href="https://aws.amazon.com/cn/blogs/security/get-the-full-benefits-of-imdsv2-and-disable-imdsv1-across-your-aws-infrastructure/">AWS EC2 now uses IMDSv2 as the default metadata service</a>. TiDB supports backing up data from TiKV instances that have IMDSv2 enabled, helping you run TiDB clusters more effectively in public cloud services.</td>

Author: ```suggestion
    <td>Enable <a href="https://aws.amazon.com/sdk-for-rust/">AWS SDK for Rust</a> for external storage access (introduced in v8.5.0)</td>
    <td>TiDB replaces the original Rusoto library with the AWS SDK for Rust to access external storage like Amazon S3 from TiKV. This change enhances compatibility with AWS features such as IMDSv2 and EKS Pod Identity.</td>
```

| [`tidb_enable_fast_create_table`](/system-variables.md#tidb_enable_fast_create_table-new-in-v800) | Modified | Changes the default value from `OFF` to `ON` after further tests, meaning that the [accelerated table creation](/accelerated-table-creation.md) feature is enabled by default. |
| [`tidb_ddl_reorg_max_write_speed`](/system-variables.md#tidb_ddl_reorg_max_write_speed-new-in-v850)  | Newly added | Limits the write bandwidth for each TiKV node and only takes effect when index creation acceleration is enabled (controlled by the [`tidb_ddl_enable_fast_reorg`](#tidb_ddl_enable_fast_reorg-new-in-v630) variable). For example, setting the variable to `200MiB` limits the maximum write speed to 200 MiB/s.  |

### Configuration parameters

| Configuration file or component | Configuration parameter | Change type | Description |
| -------- | -------- | -------- | -------- |
| TiDB | [`deprecate-integer-display-length`](/tidb-configuration-file.md#deprecate-integer-display-length) | Modified | Starting from v8.5.0, the integer display width feature is deprecated. The default value of this configuration item is changed from `false` to `true`. |

> | TiKV | [`raft-client-queue-size`](/tikv-configuration-file.md#raft-client-queue-size) | Modified | Changes the default value from `8192` to `16384`. |

Author: ```suggestion
| TiKV | [`raft-client-queue-size`](/tikv-configuration-file.md#raft-client-queue-size) | Modified | Changes the default value from `8192` to `16384`. |
| BR | [`--checksum`](/br/use-br-command-line-tool.md) | Modified | Changes the default value from `true` to `false`, meaning that by default, BR does not calculate the table-level checksum during full backups to improve backup performance. |
```

+ TiKV <!--tw@hfxsd: 2 notes-->

    - Use a separate thread to clean up replicas, ensuring stable latency for critical paths of Raft reads and writes [#16001](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/16001) @[hbisheng](https://github.com/hbisheng)
    - Improve the performance of the vector distance function by supporting SIMD [#17290](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/17290) @[EricZequan](https://github.com/EricZequan)

+ PD <!--tw@qiancai: 2 notes-->

    - Support dynamic switching of the `tso` service between microservice and non-microservice modes [#8477](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/8477) @[rleungx](https://github.com/rleungx)
    - Optimize the case format of certain fields in the `pd-ctl config` output [#8694](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/8694) @[lhy1024](https://github.com/lhy1024)
    - [Store limit v2](/configure-store-limit.md#principles-of-store-limit-v2) becomes generally available (GA) [#8865](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/8865) @[lhy1024](https://github.com/lhy1024)

>     - Support configuring Region inspection concurrency [#8866](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/8866) @[lhy1024](https://github.com/lhy1024)

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
    - Support configuring Region inspection concurrency (experimental) [#8866](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/8866) @[lhy1024](https://github.com/lhy1024)
```

    - Fix the issue that the `REPLACE()` function returns an error when the first parameter is a constant [#9522](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/9522) @[guo-shaoge](https://github.com/guo-shaoge)
    - Fix the issue that `LPAD()` and `RPAD()` functions return incorrect results in some cases [#9465](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/9465) @[guo-shaoge](https://github.com/guo-shaoge)

+ Tools

    + Backup & Restore (BR) <!--tw@hfxsd: 4 notes-->

        - Fix the OOM issue during backups when there are too many uncompleted range gaps, reducing the amount of pre-allocated memory [#53529](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/53529) @[Leavrth](https://github.com/Leavrth)
        - Fix the issue that global indexes cannot be backed up [#57469](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/57469) @[Defined2014](https://github.com/Defined2014)
        - Fix the issue that logs might print out encrypted information [#57585](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/57585) @[kennytm](https://github.com/kennytm)
        - Fix the issue that the advancer cannot handle lock conflicts [#57134](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/57134) @[3pointer](https://github.com/3pointer)

>         - Fix the issue that PITR tasks might fail for tables with millions of rows [#57743](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/57743) @[Tristan1900](https://github.com/Tristan1900)

Author: ```suggestion
        - Fix the issue that PITR tasks might fail for tables with millions of rows [#57743](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/57743) @[Tristan1900](https://github.com/Tristan1900)
        - Fix potential security vulnerabilities by upgrading the k8s.io/api library version [#57790](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/57790) @[BornChanger](https://github.com/BornChanger)
        - Fix the issue that PITR tasks might return the `Information schema is out of date` error when there are a large number of tables in the cluster but the actual data size is small [#57743](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/57743) @[Tristan1900](https://github.com/Tristan1900)
```

>         - Fix the issue that PITR tasks might fail for tables with millions of rows [#57743](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/57743) @[Tristan1900](https://github.com/Tristan1900)

Author: ```suggestion
```

> 

Author: ```suggestion
        - Fix potential security vulnerabilities by upgrading the k8s.io/api library version [#57790](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/57790) @[BornChanger](https://github.com/BornChanger)
        - Fix the issue that PITR tasks might return the `Information schema is out of date` error when there are a large number of tables in the cluster but the actual data size is small [#57743](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/57743) @[Tristan1900](https://github.com/Tristan1900)

```

    <td>The CPU time is now integrated into a system table, displayed alongside other metrics for sessions or SQL, letting you observe high CPU consumption operations from multiple perspectives, and improving diagnostic efficiency. This is especially useful for diagnosing scenarios such as CPU spikes in instances or read/write hotspots in clusters.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td><a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v8.5/top-sql#use-top-sql">Support viewing aggregated TiKV CPU time by table or database</a> (introduced in v8.4.0) </td>
    <td>When hotspot issues are not caused by individual SQL statements, using the aggregated CPU time by table or database level in Top SQL can help you quickly identify the tables or applications responsible for the hotspots, significantly improving the efficiency of diagnosing hotspot and CPU consumption issues. </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td><a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v8.5/backup-and-restore-overview">Backup & Restore (BR)</a> uses <a href="https://aws.amazon.com/sdk-for-rust/">AWS SDK for Rust</a> to access external storage (introduced in v8.5.0)</td>

>     <td>BR replaces the original Rusoto library with<a href="https://aws.amazon.com/sdk-for-rust/">AWS SDK for Rust</a> to access external storage such as Amazon S3 from TiKV. This change enhances compatibility with AWS features such as <a href="https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSEC2/latest/UserGuide/configuring-instance-metadata-service.html">IMDSv2</a> and <a href="https://docs.aws.amazon.com/eks/latest/userguide/pod-identities.html">EKS Pod Identity</a>.</td>

Author: ```suggestion
    <td>BR replaces the original Rusoto library with <a href="https://aws.amazon.com/sdk-for-rust/">AWS SDK for Rust</a> to access external storage such as Amazon S3 from TiKV. This change enhances compatibility with AWS features such as <a href="https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSEC2/latest/UserGuide/configuring-instance-metadata-service.html">IMDSv2</a> and <a href="https://docs.aws.amazon.com/eks/latest/userguide/pod-identities.html">EKS Pod Identity</a>.</td>
```

    For more information, see [documentation](/pd-control.md).

### SQL

* Support foreign keys (GA) [#36982](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/36982) @[YangKeao](https://github.com/YangKeao) @[crazycs520](https://github.com/crazycs520) tw@lilin90 <!--1894-->

    The foreign key feature becomes generally available (GA) in v8.5.0. Foreign key constraints help ensure data consistency and integrity. You can easily establish foreign key relationships between tables, with support for cascading updates and deletions, simplifying data management. This feature enhances support for applications with complex data relationships.

    For more information, see [documentation](/foreign-key.md).

* Introduce the `ADMIN ALTER DDL JOBS` statement to support modifying the DDL jobs online [#57229](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/57229) @[fzzf678](https://github.com/fzzf678) @[tangenta](https://github.com/tangenta) tw@hfxsd <!--2016-->

>     Starting from v8.3.0, you can set the variables [`tidb_ddl_reorg_batch_size`](/system-variables#tidb_ddl_reorg_batch_size) and [`tidb_ddl_reorg_worker_cnt`](/system-variables#tidb_ddl_reorg_worker_cnt) at the session level. As a result, setting these two variables globally no longer affects all running DDL jobs. To modify the values of these variables, you need to cancel the DDL job first, adjust the variables, and then resubmit the job.

Author: ```suggestion
    Starting from v8.3.0, you can set the variables [`tidb_ddl_reorg_batch_size`](/system-variables.md#tidb_ddl_reorg_batch_size) and [`tidb_ddl_reorg_worker_cnt`](/system-variables.md#tidb_ddl_reorg_worker_cnt) at the session level. As a result, setting these two variables globally no longer affects all running DDL jobs. To modify the values of these variables, you need to cancel the DDL job first, adjust the variables, and then resubmit the job.
```

| [`tidb_enable_fast_create_table`](/system-variables.md#tidb_enable_fast_create_table-new-in-v800) | Modified | Changes the default value from `OFF` to `ON` after further tests, meaning that the [accelerated table creation](/accelerated-table-creation.md) feature is enabled by default. |
| [`tidb_ddl_reorg_max_write_speed`](/system-variables.md#tidb_ddl_reorg_max_write_speed-new-in-v850)  | Newly added | Limits the write bandwidth for each TiKV node and only takes effect when index creation acceleration is enabled (controlled by the [`tidb_ddl_enable_fast_reorg`](/system-variables.md#tidb_ddl_enable_fast_reorg-new-in-v630) variable). For example, setting the variable to `200MiB` limits the maximum write speed to 200 MiB/s.  |

### Configuration parameters

| Configuration file or component | Configuration parameter | Change type | Description |
| -------- | -------- | -------- | -------- |
| TiDB | [`deprecate-integer-display-length`](/tidb-configuration-file.md#deprecate-integer-display-length) | Modified | Starting from v8.5.0, the integer display width feature is deprecated. The default value of this configuration item is changed from `false` to `true`. |

> | TiKV | [`raft-client-queue-size`](/tikv-configuration-file.md#raft-client-queue-size) | Modified | Changes the default value from `8192` to `16384`. |

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
| TiKV | [`raft-client-queue-size`](/tikv-configuration-file.md#raft-client-queue-size) | Modified | Changes the default value from `8192` to `16384`. |
| PD | [`patrol-region-worker-count`](/pd-configuration-file.md#patrol-region-worker-count-new-in-v850) | Newly added | Controls the number of concurrent [operators](/glossary.md#operator) created by the checker when inspecting the health state of a Region. |
```

+ TiKV

    - Use a separate thread to clean up replicas, ensuring stable latency for critical paths of Raft reads and writes [#16001](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/16001) @[hbisheng](https://github.com/hbisheng)
    - Improve the performance of the vector distance function by supporting SIMD [#17290](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/17290) @[EricZequan](https://github.com/EricZequan)

+ PD

    - Support dynamic switching of the `tso` service between microservice and non-microservice modes [#8477](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/8477) @[rleungx](https://github.com/rleungx)
    - Optimize the case format of certain fields in the `pd-ctl config` output [#8694](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/8694) @[lhy1024](https://github.com/lhy1024)
    - [Store limit v2](/configure-store-limit.md#principles-of-store-limit-v2) becomes generally available (GA) [#8865](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/8865) @[lhy1024](https://github.com/lhy1024)
    - Support configuring Region inspection concurrency (experimental) [#8866](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/8866) @[lhy1024](https://github.com/lhy1024)

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Improve the performance of Region heartbeat processing and support a scale of 10 million regions [#7897](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/7897) @[nolouch](https://github.com/nolouch) @[rleungx](https://github.com/rleungx) @[JmPotato](https://github.com/JmPotato)
```

Author: As this issue was already covered in v8.2 release notes, generally, there is no need to repeat it unless new PRs of this issue were merged in v8.5. Hence, let's add it to the v8.5 highlight table as suggested by @dbsid.

    - Improve query performance of vector search in data update scenarios [#9599](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/9599) @[Lloyd-Pottiger](https://github.com/Lloyd-Pottiger)
    - Add monitoring metrics for CPU usage during vector index building [#9032](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/9032) @[JaySon-Huang](https://github.com/JaySon-Huang)
    - Improve the execution efficiency of logical operators [#9146](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/9146) @[windtalker](https://github.com/windtalker)

+ Tools

    + Backup & Restore (BR) <!--tw@Oreoxmt: 4 notes-->

        - (dup): release-7.1.6.md > Improvements> Tools> Backup & Restore (BR) - Reduce unnecessary log printing during backup [#55902](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/55902) @[Leavrth](https://github.com/Leavrth)
        - Optimize the error message for the encryption key `--crypter.key` [#56388](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/56388) @[Tristan1900](https://github.com/Tristan1900)
        - Increase concurrency in BR when creating databases to improve data restore performance [#56866](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/56866) @[Leavrth](https://github.com/Leavrth)

>         - During a full backup, the checksum for BR internal validation is disabled by default (`--checksum=false`) to improve backup performance. The checksum used to verify backup data integrity remains enabled [#56373](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/56373) @[Tristan1900](https://github.com/Tristan1900)

Author: ```suggestion
        - Disable the table-level checksum calculation (`—-checksum=false`) during full backups by default to improve backup performance. [#56373](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/56373) @[Tristan1900](https://github.com/Tristan1900)
```

    For more information, see [documentation](/tune-region-performance.md#use-the-active-pd-follower-feature-to-enhance-the-scalability-of-pds-region-information-query-service).

### Performance

* TiDB accelerated table creation becomes generally available (GA), significantly reducing data migration and cluster initialization time [#50052](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/50052) @[D3Hunter](https://github.com/D3Hunter) @[gmhdbjd](https://github.com/gmhdbjd)

    TiDB v7.6.0 introduces accelerated table creation as an experimental feature, controlled by the system variable [`tidb_ddl_version`](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v7.6/system-variables#tidb_ddl_version-new-in-v760). Staring from v8.0.0, this system variable is renamed to [`tidb_enable_fast_create_table`](/system-variables.md#tidb_enable_fast_create_table-new-in-v800).

    In v8.5.0, TiDB accelerated table creation becomes generally available (GA) and is enabled by default. During data migration and cluster initialization, this feature supports rapid creation of millions of tables, significantly reducing operation time.

>     For more information, see [Documentation](/accelerated-table-creation.md).

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
    For more information, see [documentation](/accelerated-table-creation.md).
```

### Configuration parameters

| Configuration file or component | Configuration parameter | Change type | Description |
| -------- | -------- | -------- | -------- |
| TiDB | [`deprecate-integer-display-length`](/tidb-configuration-file.md#deprecate-integer-display-length) | Modified | Starting from v8.5.0, the integer display width feature is deprecated. The default value of this configuration item is changed from `false` to `true`. |
| TiKV | [`raft-client-queue-size`](/tikv-configuration-file.md#raft-client-queue-size) | Modified | Changes the default value from `8192` to `16384`. |
| PD | [`patrol-region-worker-count`](/pd-configuration-file.md#patrol-region-worker-count-new-in-v850) | Newly added | Controls the number of concurrent [operators](/glossary.md#operator) created by the checker when inspecting the health state of a Region. |

> | BR | [`--checksum`](/br/use-br-command-line-tool.md) | Modified | Changes the default value from `true` to `false`, meaning that BR does not calculate the table-level checksum during full backups by default, to improve backup performance. |

Author: ```suggestion
| BR | [`--checksum`](/br/br-snapshot-manual.md) | Modified | Changes the default value from `true` to `false`, meaning that BR does not calculate the table-level checksum during full backups by default, to improve backup performance. |
```

---
title: TiDB 8.5.0 Release Notes
summary: Learn about the new features, compatibility changes, improvements, and bug fixes in TiDB 8.5.0.
---

# TiDB 8.5.0 Release Notes

<EmailSubscriptionWrapper />

> Release date: xx xx, 2024

Author: ```suggestion
Release date: December xx, 2024
```

TiDB version: 8.5.0

Quick access: [Quick start](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v8.5/quick-start-with-tidb) | [Production deployment](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v8.5/production-deployment-using-tiup)

TiDB 8.5.0 is a Long-Term Support Release (LTS).

Compared with the previous LTS 8.1.0, 8.5.0 includes new features, improvements, and bug fixes released in [8.2.0-DMR](/releases/release-8.2.0.md), [8.3.0-DMR](/releases/release-8.3.0.md), and [8.4.0-DMR](/releases/release-8.4.0.md). When you upgrade from 8.1.x to 8.5.0, you can download the [TiDB Release Notes PDF](https://download.pingcap.org/tidb-v8.1-to-v8.5-en-release-notes.pdf) to view all release notes between the two LTS versions. The following table lists some highlights from 8.1.0 to 8.5.0:

<table>
<thead>
  <tr>
    <th>Category</th>
    <th>Feature/Enhancement</th>
    <th>Description</th>
  </tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
  <tr>
    <td rowspan="6">Scalability and Performance</td>
    <td>Reduce data processing latency in multiple dimensions</td>
    <td>TiDB continuously refines data processing to improve performance, effectively meeting the low-latency SQL processing requirements in financial scenarios. Key updates include:

>     <li>Support <a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/zh/tidb/v8.5/system-variables#tidb_executor_concurrency-new-in-v50">parallel sorting</a> (introduced in v8.2.0) </li>

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
    <li>Support <a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v8.5/system-variables#tidb_executor_concurrency-new-in-v50">parallel sorting</a> (introduced in v8.2.0) </li>
```

>     <li>Optimize <a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/zh/tidb/v8.5/tidb-configuration-file#batch-policy-new-in-v830">batch processing strategy for KV (key-value) requests </a> (introduced in v8.3.0) </li>

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
    <li>Optimize <a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v8.5/tidb-configuration-file#batch-policy-new-in-v830">batch processing strategy for KV (key-value) requests </a> (introduced in v8.3.0) </li>
```

    <li>Support <a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v8.5/system-variables#tidb_tso_client_rpc_mode-new-in-v840">parallel mode for TSO requests</a> (introduced in v8.4.0) </li>
    <li>Reduce the resource overhead of <a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v8.5/sql-statement-delete">DELETE</a> operations (introduced in v8.4.0) </li>
    <li>Improve query performance for <a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v8.5/cached-tables">cached tables</a> (introduced in v8.4.0) </li>

>     <li>Introduce <a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/zh/tidb/v8.5/system-variables#tidb_hash_join_version-new-in-v840">an optimized version of Hash Join</a> (introduced in v8.4.0) </li>

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
    <li>Introduce <a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/zh/tidb/v8.5/system-variables#tidb_hash_join_version-new-in-v840">an optimized version of Hash Join</a> (experimental, introduced in v8.4.0) </li>
```

    <td>Improve the stability of large-scale clusters</td>
    <td>Companies that use TiDB to run multi-tenant or SaaS applications often need to store a large number of tables. In v8.5.0, TiDB significantly enhances the stability of large-scale clusters. 
    <li><a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v8.5/schema-cache">Schema cache control</a> and <a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v8.5/system-variables#tidb_stats_cache_mem_quota-new-in-v610">setting the memory quota for the TiDB statistics cache</a> are generally available (GA), reducing stability issues caused by excessive memory consumption. </li>
    <li>PD introduces <a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v8.5/tune-region-performance#use-the-active-pd-follower-feature-to-enhance-the-scalability-of-pds-region-information-query-service">Active Follower</a> to handle the pressure brought by numerous Regions, gradually <a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v8.5/pd-microservices">decouples the services handled by PD</a> for independent deployment. </li>
    <li>PD improves the performance of Region heartbeat processing and supports tens of millions of Regions for a single cluster.</li>

>     <li>You can <a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/zh/tidb/v8.5/system-variables#tidb_auto_analyze_concurrency-new-in-v840">increase concurrency</a> and <a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/zh/tidb/v8.5/statistics#collect-statistics-on-some-columns">reduce the number of collected objects</a> to improve the efficiency of statistics collection and loading, ensuring the stability of execution plans in large clusters.</li>

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
    <li>You can <a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v8.5/system-variables#tidb_auto_analyze_concurrency-new-in-v840">increase concurrency</a> and <a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v8.5/statistics#collect-statistics-on-some-columns">reduce the number of collected objects</a> to improve the efficiency of statistics collection and loading, ensuring the stability of execution plans in large clusters.</li>
```

    For more information, see [Encrypt the backup data](/br/br-snapshot-manual.md#encrypt-the-backup-data) and [Encrypt the log backup data](/br/br-pitr-manual.md#encrypt-the-log-backup-data).

* TiKV encryption at rest supports [Google Cloud Key Management Service (Google Cloud KMS)](https://cloud.google.com/docs/security/key-management-deep-dive) (GA) [#8906](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/8906) @[glorv](https://github.com/glorv)

    TiKV ensures data security by using the encryption at rest technique to encrypt stored data. The core aspect of this technique is proper key management. In v8.0.0, TiKV encryption at rest experimentally supports using Google Cloud KMS for master key management.

    Starting from v8.5.0, encryption at rest using Google Cloud KMS becomes generally available (GA). To use this feature, first create a key on Google Cloud, and then configure the `[security.encryption.master-key]` section in the TiKV configuration file.

    For more information, see [documentation](/encryption-at-rest.md#tikv-encryption-at-rest).

## Compatibility changes

> **Note:**
>

> > This section provides compatibility changes you need to know when you upgrade from v8.1.0 to the current version (v8.2.0). If you are upgrading from v8.0.0 or earlier versions to the current version, you might also need to check the compatibility changes introduced in intermediate versions.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
> This section provides compatibility changes you need to know when you upgrade from v8.4.0 to the current version (v8.5.0). If you are upgrading from v8.3.0 or earlier versions to the current version, you might also need to check the compatibility changes introduced in intermediate versions.
```

### Configuration parameters

| Configuration file or component | Configuration parameter | Change type | Description |
| -------- | -------- | -------- | -------- |
| TiDB | [`deprecate-integer-display-length`](/tidb-configuration-file.md#deprecate-integer-display-length) | Modified | Starting from v8.5.0, the integer display width feature is deprecated. The default value of this configuration item is changed from `false` to `true`. |
| TiKV | [`raft-client-queue-size`](/tikv-configuration-file.md#raft-client-queue-size) | Modified | Changes the default value from `8192` to `16384`. |
| PD | [`patrol-region-worker-count`](/pd-configuration-file.md#patrol-region-worker-count-new-in-v850) | Newly added | Controls the number of concurrent [operators](/glossary.md#operator) created by the checker when inspecting the health state of a Region. |
| BR | [`--checksum`](/br/br-snapshot-manual.md) | Modified | Changes the default value from `true` to `false`, meaning that BR does not calculate the table-level checksum during full backups by default, to improve backup performance. |

## Removed features

> * The following features are removed starting from v8.4.0:

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
* The following feature has been removed:
```

    - Fix the issue that configuring `tidb_enable_tso_follower_proxy` to `0` or `OFF` fails to disable the TSO Follower Proxy feature [#8709](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/8709) @[JmPotato](https://github.com/JmPotato)

+ TiFlash

    - Fix the issue that the `SUBSTRING()` function does not support the `pos` and `len` arguments for certain integer types, causing query errors [#9473](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/9473) @[gengliqi](https://github.com/gengliqi)
    - Fix the issue that vector search performance might degrade after scaling out TiFlash write nodes in the disaggregated storage and compute architecture [#9637](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/9637) @[kolafish](https://github.com/kolafish)
    - Fix the issue that the `SUBSTRING()` function returns incorrect results when the second parameter is negative [#9604](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/9604) @[guo-shaoge](https://github.com/guo-shaoge)
    - Fix the issue that the `REPLACE()` function returns an error when the first parameter is a constant [#9522](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/9522) @[guo-shaoge](https://github.com/guo-shaoge)

>     - Fix the issue that `LPAD()` and `RPAD()` functions return incorrect results in some cases [#9465](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/9465) @[guo-shaoge](https://github.com/guo-shaoge)

Reviewer 8: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue that `LPAD()` and `RPAD()` functions return incorrect results in some cases [#9465](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/9465) @[guo-shaoge](https://github.com/guo-shaoge)
    - Fix the issue that corrupt data may be written when shutting down TiFlash after adding vector indexes and make TiFlash fails to restart [#9714](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/9714) @[JaySon-Huang](https://github.com/JaySon-Huang)
```

+ Tools

    + Backup & Restore (BR)

        - Fix the OOM issue during backups when there are too many uncompleted range gaps, reducing the amount of pre-allocated memory [#53529](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/53529) @[Leavrth](https://github.com/Leavrth)
        - Fix the issue that global indexes cannot be backed up [#57469](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/57469) @[Defined2014](https://github.com/Defined2014)
        - Fix the issue that logs might print out encrypted information [#57585](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/57585) @[kennytm](https://github.com/kennytm)
        - Fix the issue that the advancer cannot handle lock conflicts [#57134](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/57134) @[3pointer](https://github.com/3pointer)
        - Fix potential security vulnerabilities by upgrading the `k8s.io/api` library version [#57790](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/57790) @[BornChanger](https://github.com/BornChanger)

>         - Fix the issue that PITR tasks might return the `Information schema is out of date` error when there are a large number of tables in the cluster but the actual data size is small [#57743](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/57743) @[Tristan1900](https://github.com/Tristan1900)

Author: ```suggestion
        - Fix the issue that PITR tasks might return the `Information schema is out of date` error when there are a large number of tables in the cluster but the actual data size is small [#57743](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/57743) @[Tristan1900](https://github.com/Tristan1900)
        - Fix the issue that log backup might unexpectedly enter a paused state when the advancer owner switches [#58031](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/58031) @[3pointer](https://github.com/3pointer)  
        - Fix the issue that the `tiup br restore` command omits checking whether the target cluster table already exists during database or table restoration, which might overwrite existing tables [#58168](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/58168) @[RidRisR](https://github.com/RidRisR)  
```

---
title: TiDB 8.5.0 Release Notes
summary: Learn about the new features, compatibility changes, improvements, and bug fixes in TiDB 8.5.0.
---

# TiDB 8.5.0 Release Notes

<EmailSubscriptionWrapper />

Release date: December xx, 2024

TiDB version: 8.5.0

Quick access: [Quick start](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v8.5/quick-start-with-tidb) | [Production deployment](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v8.5/production-deployment-using-tiup)

TiDB 8.5.0 is a Long-Term Support Release (LTS).

Compared with the previous LTS 8.1.0, 8.5.0 includes new features, improvements, and bug fixes released in [8.2.0-DMR](/releases/release-8.2.0.md), [8.3.0-DMR](/releases/release-8.3.0.md), and [8.4.0-DMR](/releases/release-8.4.0.md). When you upgrade from 8.1.x to 8.5.0, you can download the [TiDB Release Notes PDF](https://download.pingcap.org/tidb-v8.2-to-v8.5-en-release-notes.pdf) to view all release notes between the two LTS versions. The following table lists some highlights from 8.1.0 to 8.5.0:

<table>
<thead>
  <tr>
    <th>Category</th>
    <th>Feature/Enhancement</th>
    <th>Description</th>
  </tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
  <tr>

>     <td rowspan="6">Scalability and Performance</td>

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    <td rowspan="7">Scalability and Performance</td>
```

    <li>Support <a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v8.5/system-variables#tidb_executor_concurrency-new-in-v50">parallel sorting</a> (introduced in v8.2.0) </li>
    <li>Optimize <a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v8.5/tidb-configuration-file#batch-policy-new-in-v830">batch processing strategy for KV (key-value) requests </a> (introduced in v8.3.0) </li>
    <li>Support <a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v8.5/system-variables#tidb_tso_client_rpc_mode-new-in-v840">parallel mode for TSO requests</a> (introduced in v8.4.0) </li>
    <li>Reduce the resource overhead of <a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v8.5/sql-statement-delete">DELETE</a> operations (introduced in v8.4.0) </li>
    <li>Improve query performance for <a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v8.5/cached-tables">cached tables</a> (introduced in v8.4.0) </li>
    <li>Introduce <a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v8.5/system-variables#tidb_hash_join_version-new-in-v840">an optimized version of Hash Join</a> (experimental, introduced in v8.4.0) </li>
    </td>
  </tr>

>   <tr>

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  <tr>
    <td><a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v8.5/tikv-in-memory-engine">TiKV MVCC In-Memory Engine (IME) </a> (introduced in v8.5.0)</td>
    <td> The TiKV MVCC in-memory engine caches the latest version of data in memory, helping TiKV quickly skip over old versions and retrieve the most recent data. This feature can significantly improve data scan performance in scenarios where data records are frequently updated or historical versions are retained for a longer period.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
```

Reviewer 9: ```suggestion
  <tr>
    <td><a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v8.5/tikv-in-memory-engine">TiKV MVCC In-Memory Engine (IME) </a> (introduced in v8.5.0)</td>
    <td> The TiKV MVCC in-memory engine caches a few recent versions of data in memory, helping TiKV quickly skip over old versions and retrieve the most recent data. This feature can significantly improve data scan performance in scenarios where data records are frequently updated or historical versions are retained for a longer period.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
```

Reviewer 9: IME doesn't always keep the latest version, but a few recent versions.

    <li>Optimize <a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v8.5/tidb-configuration-file#batch-policy-new-in-v830">batch processing strategy for KV (key-value) requests </a> (introduced in v8.3.0) </li>
    <li>Support <a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v8.5/system-variables#tidb_tso_client_rpc_mode-new-in-v840">parallel mode for TSO requests</a> (introduced in v8.4.0) </li>
    <li>Reduce the resource overhead of <a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v8.5/sql-statement-delete">DELETE</a> operations (introduced in v8.4.0) </li>
    <li>Improve query performance for <a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v8.5/cached-tables">cached tables</a> (introduced in v8.4.0) </li>
    <li>Introduce <a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v8.5/system-variables#tidb_hash_join_version-new-in-v840">an optimized version of Hash Join</a> (experimental, introduced in v8.4.0) </li>
    </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td><a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v8.5/tikv-in-memory-engine">TiKV MVCC In-Memory Engine (IME) </a> (introduced in v8.5.0)</td>

>     <td> The TiKV MVCC in-memory engine cachesa few recent versions of data in memory, helping TiKV quickly skip over old versions and retrieve the most recent data. This feature can significantly improve data scan performance in scenarios where data records are frequently updated or historical versions are retained for a longer period.</td>

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    <td> The TiKV MVCC in-memory engine caches a few recent versions of data in memory, helping TiKV quickly skip over old versions and retrieve the most recent data. This feature can significantly improve data scan performance in scenarios where data records are frequently updated or historical versions are retained for a longer period.</td>
```

>     <td><a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v8.5/tikv-in-memory-engine">TiKV MVCC In-Memory Engine (IME) </a> (introduced in v8.5.0)</td>
>     <td> The TiKV MVCC in-memory engine caches a few recent versions of data in memory, helping TiKV quickly skip over old versions and retrieve the most recent data. This feature can significantly improve data scan performance in scenarios where data records are frequently updated or historical versions are retained for a longer period.</td>

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
    <td><a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v8.5/tikv-in-memory-engine">TiKV MVCC In-Memory Engine (IME)</a> (introduced in v8.5.0)</td>
    <td>The TiKV MVCC in-memory engine caches the most recent MVCC versions of data in memory, helping TiKV quickly skip older versions and retrieve the latest data. This feature can significantly improve data scan performance in scenarios where data records are frequently updated or historical versions are retained for a longer period.</td>
```

    For more information, see [documentation](/tune-region-performance.md#use-the-active-pd-follower-feature-to-enhance-the-scalability-of-pds-region-information-query-service).

### Performance

* TiDB accelerated table creation becomes generally available (GA), significantly reducing data migration and cluster initialization time [#50052](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/50052) @[D3Hunter](https://github.com/D3Hunter) @[gmhdbjd](https://github.com/gmhdbjd)

    TiDB v7.6.0 introduces accelerated table creation as an experimental feature, controlled by the system variable [`tidb_ddl_version`](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v7.6/system-variables#tidb_ddl_version-new-in-v760). Staring from v8.0.0, this system variable is renamed to [`tidb_enable_fast_create_table`](/system-variables.md#tidb_enable_fast_create_table-new-in-v800).

    In v8.5.0, TiDB accelerated table creation becomes generally available (GA) and is enabled by default. During data migration and cluster initialization, this feature supports rapid creation of millions of tables, significantly reducing operation time.

    For more information, see [documentation](/accelerated-table-creation.md).

> * TiKV supports the MVCC in-memory engine (IME), which accelerates queries involving scans of extensive MVCC historical versions [#16141](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/16141) [@SpadeA-Tang](https://github.com/SpadeA-Tang) [@glorv](https://github.com/glorv) [@overvenus](https://github.com/overvenus)

Author: ```suggestion
* TiKV supports the MVCC in-memory engine (IME), which accelerates queries involving scans of extensive MVCC historical versions [#16141](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/16141) @[SpadeA-Tang](https://github.com/SpadeA-Tang) @[glorv](https://github.com/glorv) @[overvenus](https://github.com/overvenus)
```

* Starting from v6.3.0, partitioned tables use [dynamic pruning mode](/partitioned-table.md#dynamic-pruning-mode) by default. Compared with static pruning mode, dynamic pruning mode supports features such as IndexJoin and plan cache with better performance. Therefore, static pruning mode will be deprecated.

## Improvements

+ TiDB <!--tw@hfxsd: 12 notes-->

    - Improve the response speed of `ADD INDEX` acceleration to task cancelation when the Distributed eXecution Framework (DXF) is disabled [#56017](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/56017) @[lance6716](https://github.com/lance6716)
    - Improve the speed of adding indexes to small tables [#54230](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/54230) @[tangenta](https://github.com/tangenta)

>     - Add the system variable `tidb_ddl_reorg_max_write_speed` to limit the maximum speed of the ingest phase when adding indexes [#57156](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/57156) @[CbcWestwolf](https://github.com/CbcWestwolf)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    - Add a new system variable `tidb_ddl_reorg_max_write_speed` to limit the maximum speed of the ingest phase when adding indexes [#57156](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/57156) @[CbcWestwolf](https://github.com/CbcWestwolf)
```

>     - 提升关闭分布式框架的 fast reorg 加索引任务对任务取消的响应速度 [#56017](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/56017) @[lance6716](https://github.com/lance6716)
>     - 提升小表加索引的速度 [#54230](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/54230) @[tangenta](https://github.com/tangenta)
>     - 增加系统变量 tidb_ddl_reorg_max_write_speed 来限制加索引时 ingest 阶段速度上限 [#57156](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/57156) @[CbcWestwolf](https://github.com/CbcWestwolf)
>     - 提升某些情况下查询 information_schema.tables 的性能 [#57295](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/57295) @[tangenta](https://github.com/tangenta)
>     - 支持动态调整更多 DDL 任务参数 [#57526](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/57526) @[fzzf678](https://github.com/fzzf678)
>     - 允许全局索引包含分区表达式中的所有列 [#56230](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/56230) @[Defined2014](https://github.com/Defined2014)
>     - 对于 list 分区表，支持对非"点查"的场景(range 查询)进行分区裁剪 [#56673](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/56673) @[Defined2014](https://github.com/Defined2014)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    - Improve the response speed of `ADD INDEX` acceleration to task cancelation when the Distributed eXecution Framework (DXF) is disabled [#56017](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/56017) @[lance6716](https://github.com/lance6716)
    - Improve the speed of adding indexes to small tables [#54230](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/54230) @[tangenta](https://github.com/tangenta)
    - Add the system variable `tidb_ddl_reorg_max_write_speed` to limit the maximum speed of the ingest phase when adding indexes [#57156](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/57156) @[CbcWestwolf](https://github.com/CbcWestwolf)
    - Improve the performance of querying `information_schema.tables` in some cases [#57295](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/57295) @[tangenta](https://github.com/tangenta)
    - Support dynamically adjusting more DDL task parameters [#57526](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/57526) @[fzzf678](https://github.com/fzzf678)
    - Support global indexes containing all columns in a partitioned expression [#56230](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/56230) @[Defined2014](https://github.com/Defined2014)
    - Support list partitioned tables in the range query scenario to prune partitions [#56673](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/56673) @[Defined2014](https://github.com/Defined2014)
```

    - 默认开启 FixControl#46177，避免某些情况选择全表扫没有选择索引范围扫描的问题 [#46177](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/46177) @[terry1purcell](https://github.com/terry1purcell)

>     - 改进内部估算逻辑，使其能够更充分地利用多列多值索引的统计信息，提升某些涉及多值索引的查询的估算精度 [#56915](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/56915) @[time-and-fate](https://github.com/time-and-fate)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    - Improve the internal estimation logic so that it can better use the statistics of multi-column and multi-value indexes to improve the estimation accuracy of certain queries involving multi-value indexes [#56915](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/56915) @[time-and-fate](https://github.com/time-and-fate)
```

>     - 提高特定情况下全表扫描的代价估算，减少错误的选择全表扫描的概率 [#57085](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/57085) @[terry1purcell](https://github.com/terry1purcell)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    - Improve the cost estimation of full table scan in specific cases and reduce the probability of incorrectly choosing a full table scan [#57085](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/57085) @[terry1purcell](https://github.com/terry1purcell)
```

>     - 默认开启 FixControl#46177，避免某些情况选择全表扫没有选择索引范围扫描的问题 [#46177](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/46177) @[terry1purcell](https://github.com/terry1purcell)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    - 默认开启 FixControl#46177，避免某些情况选择全表扫没有选择索引范围扫描的问题 [#46177](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/46177) @[terry1purcell](https://github.com/terry1purcell)
```

>     - 优化统计信息同步加载所需的数据量，提升加载性能 [#56812](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/56812) @[winoros](https://github.com/winoros)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    - Optimize the amount of data required for synchronized loading statistics to improve loading performance [#56812](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/56812) @[winoros](https://github.com/winoros)
```

>     - 优化特定情况下，OUTER JOIN 含有唯一索引且有 ORDER BY LIMIT 语句时的执行计划，提高执行效率 [#56321](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/56321) @[winoros](https://github.com/winoros)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    - Optimize the execution plan when `OUTER JOIN` contains a unique index and there is an `ORDER BY LIMIT` statement in certain cases to improve execution efficiency [#56321](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/56321) @[winoros](https://github.com/winoros)
```

+ TiKV <!--tw@hfxsd: 2 notes-->

>     - 利用单独的线程来进行副本清理工作，保证 Raft 读写关键路径的延迟稳定 [#16001](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/16001) @[hbisheng](https://github.com/hbisheng)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    - Use a separate thread for replica cleanup to ensure stable latency for critical paths of Raft reads and writes [#16001](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/16001) @[hbisheng](https://github.com/hbisheng)
```

>     - 提升向量距离函数性能，为向量距离函数添加 SIMD 支持 [#17290](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/17290) @[EricZequan](https://github.com/EricZequan)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    - Add SIMD support for vector distance functions to improve performance [#17290](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/17290) @[EricZequan](https://github.com/EricZequan)
```

>     - Improve the performance of vector distance function by supporting SIMD [#17290](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/17290) @[EricZequan](https://github.com/EricZequan)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    - Improve the performance of the vector distance function by supporting SIMD [#17290](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/17290) @[EricZequan](https://github.com/EricZequan)
```

+ PD <!--tw@qiancai: 2 notes-->

>     - 支持 tso 微服务模式和非微服务模式间动态切换 [#8477](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/8477) @[rleungx](https://github.com/rleungx)
>     - 改进 pd-ctl config 的输出 [#8694](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/8694) @[lhy1024](https://github.com/lhy1024)

Author: ```suggestion
    - Support dynamic switching of the `tso` service between microservice and non-microservice modes [#8477](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/8477) @[rleungx](https://github.com/rleungx)
    - Optimize the case format of certain fields in the `pd-ctl config` output [#8694](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/8694) @[lhy1024](https://github.com/lhy1024)
```

    - Improve the execution efficiency of logical operators [#9146](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/9146) @[windtalker](https://github.com/windtalker)

+ Tools

    + Backup & Restore (BR) <!--tw@Oreoxmt: 4 notes-->

        - (dup): release-7.1.6.md > 改进提升> Tools> Backup & Restore (BR) - 减少备份过程中无效日志的打印 [#55902](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/55902) @[Leavrth](https://github.com/Leavrth)
        - Optimize error message for the encryption key `--crypter.key` [#56388](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/56388) @[Tristan1900](https://github.com/Tristan1900)
        - Increase concurrency during BR database creation to improve data restore performance [#56866](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/56866) @[Leavrth](https://github.com/Leavrth)
        - Disable checksum by default during full backups to improve production environment performance while keeping it enabled in testing environments. This checksum is used only for the internal verification logic of BR, while the checksum that verifies backup data integrity remains enabled [#56373](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/56373) @[Tristan1900](https://github.com/Tristan1900)

>         - Fix the issue that backup might hang when processing a large number of tables [#57666](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/57666) @[3pointer](https://github.com/3pointer)

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
        - Add independent connection timeout tracking and reset mechanisms for each storage node, enhancing the handling of slow nodes and preventing backup operation from hanging [#57666](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/57666) @[3pointer](https://github.com/3pointer)
```

    + TiDB Data Migration (DM) <!--tw@lilin90: 1 note-->

>         - 在 DM 集群启动时，增加 dm-worker 连接到 dm-master 的重试 [#4287](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/4287) @[GMHDBJD](https://github.com/GMHDBJD)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
        - Add retries for DM-worker to connect to DM-master when the DM cluster starts up [#4287](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/4287) @[GMHDBJD](https://github.com/GMHDBJD)
```

## Bug fixes

+ TiDB <!--tw@qiancai: the following 20 notes-->

>     - 修复 PD 返回 region 信息不包含 leader 的情况，没有重试可能导致执行报错的问题 [#56757](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/56757) @[cfzjywxk](https://github.com/cfzjywxk)

Author: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue that TiDB does not automatically retry requests when the Region metadata returned from PD lacks Leader information, potentially causing execution errors [#56757](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/56757) @[cfzjywxk](https://github.com/cfzjywxk)
```

    - Fix the issue of truncated strings in the output of some functions due to type inference errors [#56587](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/56587) @[joechenrh](https://github.com/joechenrh)
    - Fix the issue that the `ADDTIME` and `SUBTIME` functions returns incorrect results when their first argument is a date type [#57569](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/57569) @[xzhangxian1008](https://github.com/xzhangxian1008)
    - Fix the issue that invalid `NULL` values can be inserted in non-strict mode (`sql_mode = ''`) [#56381](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/56381) @[joechenrh](https://github.com/joechenrh)
    - Fix the issue that the `UPDATE` statement incorrectly updates values of the `ENUM` type [#56832](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/56832) @[xhebox](https://github.com/xhebox)
    - Fix the issue that enabling the `tidb_low_resolution_tso` variable causes resource leaks during the execution of `SELECT FOR UPDATE` statements [#55468](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/55468) @[tiancaiamao](https://github.com/tiancaiamao)

>     - Fix the issue that the `JSON_TYPE` function does not validate parameter types, causing no errors returned when non-JSON data types are passed [#54029](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/54029) @[YangKeao](https://github.com/YangKeao)

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue that the `JSON_TYPE()` function does not validate parameter types, causing no errors returned when non-JSON data types are passed [#54029](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/54029) @[YangKeao](https://github.com/YangKeao)
```

    - 修复当 `PREPARE` 命令中包含 JSON 函数时可能失败的问题 [#54044](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/54044) @[YangKeao](https://github.com/YangKeao)
    - 修复当执行 `bool like cast(bit as char)` 时 TiKV 崩溃的问题 [#56494](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/56494) @[lcwangchao](https://github.com/lcwangchao)
    - 修复 `CREATE VIEW` 语句中带有变量或参数时不报错的问题 [#53176](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/53176) @[mjonss](https://github.com/mjonss)
    - 修复 `JSON_VALID()` 函数执行结果错误的问题 [#56293](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/56293) @[YangKeao](https://github.com/YangKeao)
    - 修复关闭 `tidb_ttl_job_enable` 后 TTL 任务没有被取消的问题 [#57404](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/57404) @[YangKeao](https://github.com/YangKeao) <!--tw@lilin90: the following 20 notes-->

>     - 修复同时使用 `RANGE COLUMNS` 分区函数和 `utf8mb4_0900_ai_ci` 排序规则时，查询结果错误的问题 [#57261](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/57261) @[Defined2014](https://github.com/Defined2014)
>     - 修复了执行以换行符开头的 prepared statement 会导致数组越界的运行时错误 [#54283](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/54283) @[Defined2014](https://github.com/Defined2014)
>     - 修复了时间/日期函数中设置无效精度的一些问题，比如精度设置得太大 [#56451](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/56451) @[chagelo](https://github.com/chagelo)
>     - 在 `UPDATE/INSERT/DELETE IGNORE` statement 中忽略掉一些外键错误 [#56678](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/56678) @[YangKeao](https://github.com/YangKeao)
>     - 修正了查询 slow_query 表时，如果不加时间过滤条件则只会查询最新的慢日志文件的行为 [#56100](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/56100) @[crazycs520](https://github.com/crazycs520)
>     - 修复了 TTL 表的内存泄漏问题 [#56934](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/56934) @[lcwangchao](https://github.com/lcwangchao)
>     - 避免使用 non-public 状态的表，该改动可以修复 write_only 状态的表外键约束未生效的一处问题 [#55813](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/55813) @[YangKeao](https://github.com/YangKeao)
>     - 修复使用 NATURAL JOIN 或者 USING CLAUSE 之后再使用子查询可能会报错的问题 [#53766](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/53766) @[dash12653](https://github.com/dash12653)
>     - 修复如果 CTE 包含 orderby/limit/distinct 子句并且被另外一个 CTE 的 recursive part 所引用时，可能被错误的 INLINE 导致执行报错的问题 [#56603](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/56603) @[elsa0520](https://github.com/elsa0520)
>     - 修复 VIEW 中定义的 CTE 被错误 INLINE 的问题 [#56582](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/56582) @[elsa0520](https://github.com/elsa0520)
>     - 修复 Plan Replayer 导入含有外键的表结构时可能报错的问题 [#56456](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/56456) @[hawkingrei](https://github.com/hawkingrei)
>     - 修复 Plan Replayer 导入含有 Placement Rule 的表结构时可能报错的问题 [#54961](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/54961) @[hawkingrei](https://github.com/hawkingrei)
>     - 修复使用 ANALYZE 收集含有引用了虚拟生成列的表达式索引的表的统计信息时执行会报错的问题 [#57079](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/57079) @[hawkingrei](https://github.com/hawkingrei)
>     - 修复 DROP DATABASE 语句没有正确触发统计信息对应变更的问题 [#57227](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/57227) @[Rustin170506](https://github.com/Rustin170506)
>     - 修复在 CTE 中解析数据库名时，得到错误的数据库名的问题 [#54582](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/54582) @[hawkingrei](https://github.com/hawkingrei)
>     - 修复在 DUMP STATS 生成 json 的过程中导致直方图上下界数据受损的问题 [#56083](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/56083) @[hawkingrei](https://github.com/hawkingrei)
>     - 修复 EXISTS 子查询的结果继续参与代数运算时，结果和 MySQL 不一致的问题 [#56641](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/56641) @[windtalker](https://github.com/windtalker)
>     - 修复无法为带别名的多表删除创建计划绑定的问题 [#56726](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/56726) @[hawkingrei](https://github.com/hawkingrei)
>     - 修复优化器在简化复杂谓词时没有考虑字符集及排序规则导致执行可能报错的问题 [#56479](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/56479) @[dash12653](https://github.com/dash12653)
>     - 修复 Grafana 中 STATS_HEALTHY 图标可能统计出错的问题 [#57176](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/57176) @[hawkingrei](https://github.com/hawkingrei)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue that the query result is wrong when using the `RANGE COLUMNS` partition function and the `utf8mb4_0900_ai_ci` collation at the same time [#57261](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/57261) @[Defined2014](https://github.com/Defined2014)
    - Fix the runtime error caused by executing a prepared statement that begins with a newline character, resulting in an array out of bounds [#54283](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/54283) @[Defined2014](https://github.com/Defined2014)
    - Fix the precision issue in the `UTC_TIMESTAMP()` function, for example, the precision is set too high [#56451](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/56451) @[chagelo](https://github.com/chagelo)
    - Fix the issue that foreign key errors are not omitted in `UPDATE`, `INSERT`, and `DELETE IGNORE` statements [#56678](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/56678) @[YangKeao](https://github.com/YangKeao)
    - Fix the issue that when querying the `information_schema.cluster_slow_query` table, if the time filter is not added, only the latest slow log file will be queried [#56100](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/56100) @[crazycs520](https://github.com/crazycs520)
    - Fix memory leaks in TTL tables [#56934](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/56934) @[lcwangchao](https://github.com/lcwangchao)
    - Fix the issue that foreign key constraints do not take effect for tables with `write_only` status, and avoid using tables with `non-public` status [#55813](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/55813) @[YangKeao](https://github.com/YangKeao)
    - Fix the issue that using subqueries after using `NATURAL JOIN` or `USING CLAUSE` might result in errors [#53766](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/53766) @[dash12653](https://github.com/dash12653)
    - Fix the issue that if a CTE contains `ORDER BY`, `LIMIT`, or `SELECT DISTINCT` clauses and is referenced by the recursive part of another CTE, it might be incorrectly inlined and result in an execution error [#56603](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/56603) @[elsa0520](https://github.com/elsa0520)
    - Fix the issue that the CTE defined in `VIEW` is incorrectly inlined [#56582](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/56582) @[elsa0520](https://github.com/elsa0520)
    - Fix the issue that Plan Replayer might report an error when importing a table structure containing foreign keys [#56456](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/56456) @[hawkingrei](https://github.com/hawkingrei)
    - Fix the issue that Plan Replayer might report an error when importing a table structure containing Placement Rules [#54961](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/54961) @[hawkingrei](https://github.com/hawkingrei)
    - 修复使用 ANALYZE 收集含有引用了虚拟生成列的表达式索引的表的统计信息时执行会报错的问题 [#57079](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/57079) @[hawkingrei](https://github.com/hawkingrei)
    - Fix the issue that the `DROP DATABASE` statement does not correctly trigger the corresponding change in statistics [#57227](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/57227) @[Rustin170506](https://github.com/Rustin170506)
    - Fix the issue that when parsing a database name in CTE, it returns a wrong database name [#54582](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/54582) @[hawkingrei](https://github.com/hawkingrei)
    - Fix the issue that the upper and lower bounds of the histogram are damaged when `DUMP STATS` is generating JSON [#56083](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/56083) @[hawkingrei](https://github.com/hawkingrei)
    - Fix the issue that the result of `EXISTS` subquery is inconsistent with MySQL when it continues to participate in algebraic operations [#56641](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/56641) @[windtalker](https://github.com/windtalker)
    - 修复无法为带别名的多表删除创建计划绑定的问题 [#56726](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/56726) @[hawkingrei](https://github.com/hawkingrei)
    - Fix the issue that the optimizer does not take into account the character set and collations when simplifying complex predicates, resulting in possible execution errors [#56479](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/56479) @[dash12653](https://github.com/dash12653)
    - Fix the issue that the data for Stats Healthy Distribution in Grafana might be incorrect [#57176](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/57176) @[hawkingrei](https://github.com/hawkingrei)
```

    - 修复资源管控后台任务 CPU 可能被重复统计的错误 [#17603](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/17603) @[glorv](https://github.com/glorv)
    - 修复 CDC 过多内部未完成任务堆积导致 TiKV OOM 的问题 [#17696](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/17696) @[3AceShowHand](https://github.com/3AceShowHand)
    - 修复设置 raft entry max size 过大时写入 batch 可能过大引起抖动的问题 [#17701](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/17701) @[SpadeA-Tang](https://github.com/SpadeA-Tang)
    - 修复 Split 后可能无法快速选出 Leader 的问题 [#17602](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/17602) @[LykxSassinator](https://github.com/LykxSassinator)
    - 修复 radians 和 degree 函数的 panic 问题 [#17852](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/17852) @[gengliqi](https://github.com/gengliqi)
    - 修复 hibernated Region 集中唤醒可能导致写入抖动的问题 [#17101](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/17101) @[hhwyt](https://github.com/hhwyt)

+ PD <!--tw@hfxsd: 3 notes-->

    - (dup): release-7.1.6.md > 错误修复> PD - 修复热点缓存中可能存在的内存泄露问题 [#8698](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/8698) @[lhy1024](https://github.com/lhy1024)

>     - 使得 resource group 选择器对所有面板生效 [#56572](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/56572) @[glorv](https://github.com/glorv)
>     - 修复 syncer 加载过程中日志不清晰的问题 [#8717](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/8717) @[lhy1024](https://github.com/lhy1024)
>     - 修复已删除的 resource group 仍然出现在监控面板中的问题  [#8716](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/8716) @[AndreMouche](https://github.com/AndreMouche)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue that the resource group selector does not take effect for all panels [#56572](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/56572) @[glorv](https://github.com/glorv)
    - Fix the issue that deleted resource groups still appear in the monitoring panel [#8716](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/8716) @[AndreMouche](https://github.com/AndreMouche)
    - Fix the issue that log description is not clear when loading syncer [#8717](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/8717) @[lhy1024](https://github.com/lhy1024)
```

+ TiFlash <!--tw@Oreoxmt: 4 notes-->

    - (dup): release-7.1.6.md > 错误修复> TiFlash - 修复 `SUBSTRING()` 函数不支持部分整数类型的 `pos` 和 `len` 参数导致查询报错的问题 [#9473](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/9473) @[gengliqi](https://github.com/gengliqi)
    - 修复在存算分离架构下，Vector Search 查询性能在 TiFlash write node 扩容之后，可能出现性能下降的问题 [#9637](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/9637) @[kolafish](https://github.com/kolafish)
    - 修复当 `SUBSTRING` 函数的第二个参数为负数时，可能产生错误结果的问题 [#9604](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/9604) @[guo-shaoge](https://github.com/guo-shaoge)
    - 修复当 `REPLACE` 函数的第一个参数为常数时，可能报错的问题 [#9522](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/9522) @[guo-shaoge](https://github.com/guo-shaoge)
    - 修复当 `LPAD` 和 `RPAD` 函数在某些情况下返回错误结果的问题 [#9465](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/9465) @[guo-shaoge](https://github.com/guo-shaoge)

+ Tools

    + Backup & Restore (BR) <!--tw@hfxsd: 4 notes-->

>         - 减少了预先分配的内存从而避免当 incomplete range 过多时的 OOM [#53529](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/53529) @[Leavrth](https://github.com/Leavrth)
>         - 修复了备份时无法备份 global index 的错误 [#57469](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/57469) @[Defined2014](https://github.com/Defined2014)]
>         - 修复了日志可能打印出加密信息的错误 [#57585](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/57585) @[kennytm](https://github.com/kennytm)
>         - 修复了 advancer 无法处理锁冲突的情形 [#57134](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/57134) @[3pointer](https://github.com/3pointer)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
        - Fix the OOM issue when there are too many incomplete ranges that have not been backed up yet during backup [#53529](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/53529) @[Leavrth](https://github.com/Leavrth)
        - Fix the issue that global indexes cannot be backed up [#57469](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/57469) @[Defined2014](https://github.com/Defined2014)]
        - Fix the issue that logs might print out encrypted information [#57585](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/57585) @[kennytm](https://github.com/kennytm)
        - Fix the issue that Advancer cannot handle lock conflicts [#57134](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/57134) @[3pointer](https://github.com/3pointer)
```

>     - Fix the issue that the data for Stats Healthy Distribution in Grafana might be incorrect [#57176](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/57176) @[hawkingrei](https://github.com/hawkingrei)

Author: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue that the data for Stats Healthy Distribution in Grafana might be incorrect [#57176](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/57176) @[hawkingrei](https://github.com/hawkingrei)
    - Fix the issue that vector search might return incorrect results when querying tables with clustered indexes [#57627](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/57627) @[winoros](https://github.com/winoros)
```

    - Add a new system variable `tidb_ddl_reorg_max_write_speed` to limit the maximum speed of the ingest phase when adding indexes [#57156](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/57156) @[CbcWestwolf](https://github.com/CbcWestwolf)
    - Improve the performance of querying `information_schema.tables` in some cases [#57295](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/57295) @[tangenta](https://github.com/tangenta)
    - Support dynamically adjusting more DDL task parameters [#57526](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/57526) @[fzzf678](https://github.com/fzzf678)
    - Support global indexes containing all columns in a partitioned expression [#56230](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/56230) @[Defined2014](https://github.com/Defined2014)
    - Support partition pruning for list partitioned tables in range query scenarios [#56673](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/56673) @[Defined2014](https://github.com/Defined2014)
    - Enable FixControl#46177 by default to fix the issue that table full scan is incorrectly selected (instead of the index range scan) in some cases [#46177](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/46177) @[terry1purcell](https://github.com/terry1purcell)

>     - Improve the internal estimation logic so that it can better use the statistics of multi-column and multi-value indexes to improve the estimation accuracy of certain queries involving multi-value indexes [#56915](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/56915) @[time-and-fate](https://github.com/time-and-fate)

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
    - Improve the internal estimation logic to better utilize statistics of multi-column and multi-value indexes, enhancing estimation accuracy for certain queries involving multi-value indexes [#56915](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/56915) @[time-and-fate](https://github.com/time-and-fate)
```

>     - Improve the cost estimation of full table scan in specific cases and reduce the probability of incorrectly choosing the full table scan [#57085](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/57085) @[terry1purcell](https://github.com/terry1purcell)

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
    - Improve the cost estimation for full table scans in specific scenarios, reducing the probability of incorrectly choosing a full table scan [#57085](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/57085) @[terry1purcell](https://github.com/terry1purcell)
```

    - Optimize the amount of data required for synchronous loading of statistics to improve loading performance [#56812](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/56812) @[winoros](https://github.com/winoros)

>     - Optimize the execution plan when `OUTER JOIN` contains a unique index and there is an `ORDER BY LIMIT` statement in certain cases to improve execution efficiency [#56321](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/56321) @[winoros](https://github.com/winoros)

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
    - Optimize the execution plan in specific cases where an `OUTER JOIN` involves a unique index and an `ORDER BY ... LIMIT` clause, improving execution efficiency [#56321](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/56321) @[winoros](https://github.com/winoros)
```

+ TiKV <!--tw@hfxsd: 2 notes-->

>     - Use a separate thread for replica cleanup to ensure stable latency for critical paths of Raft reads and writes [#16001](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/16001) @[hbisheng](https://github.com/hbisheng)

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
    - Use a separate thread to clean up replicas, ensuring stable latency for critical paths of Raft reads and writes [#16001](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/16001) @[hbisheng](https://github.com/hbisheng)
```

    - Optimize the case format of certain fields in the `pd-ctl config` output [#8694](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/8694) @[lhy1024](https://github.com/lhy1024)

+ TiFlash <!--tw@Oreoxmt: 3 notes-->

    - (dup): release-7.1.6.md > 改进提升> TiFlash - 提升聚簇索引表在后台回收过期数据的速度 [#9529](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/9529) @[JaySon-Huang](https://github.com/JaySon-Huang)
    - Improve query performance of vector search in data update scenarios [#9599](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/9599) @[Lloyd-Pottiger](https://github.com/Lloyd-Pottiger)
    - Add monitoring metrics for CPU usage during vector index building [#9032](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/9032) @[JaySon-Huang](https://github.com/JaySon-Huang)
    - Improve the execution efficiency of logical operators [#9146](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/9146) @[windtalker](https://github.com/windtalker)

+ Tools

    + Backup & Restore (BR) <!--tw@Oreoxmt: 4 notes-->

        - (dup): release-7.1.6.md > 改进提升> Tools> Backup & Restore (BR) - 减少备份过程中无效日志的打印 [#55902](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/55902) @[Leavrth](https://github.com/Leavrth)

>         - Optimize error message for the encryption key `--crypter.key` [#56388](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/56388) @[Tristan1900](https://github.com/Tristan1900)

Author: ```suggestion
        - Optimize the error message for the encryption key `--crypter.key` [#56388](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/56388) @[Tristan1900](https://github.com/Tristan1900)
```

>         - Increase concurrency during BR database creation to improve data restore performance [#56866](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/56866) @[Leavrth](https://github.com/Leavrth)

Author: ```suggestion
        - Increase concurrency in BR when creating databases to improve data restore performance [#56866](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/56866) @[Leavrth](https://github.com/Leavrth)
```

>         - Disable checksum by default during full backups to improve production environment performance while keeping it enabled in testing environments. This checksum is used only for the internal verification logic of BR, while the checksum that verifies backup data integrity remains enabled [#56373](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/56373) @[Tristan1900](https://github.com/Tristan1900)

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
        - When performing a full backup, the checksum for BR internal validation is disabled by default (`--checksum=false`) to improve backup performance. The checksum used to verify backup data integrity remains enabled [#56373](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/56373) @[Tristan1900](https://github.com/Tristan1900)
```

>         - Add independent connection timeout tracking and reset mechanisms for each storage node, enhancing the handling of slow nodes and preventing backup operation from hanging [#57666](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/57666) @[3pointer](https://github.com/3pointer)

Author: ```suggestion
        - Add a mechanism to independently track and reset the connection timeout for each storage node, enhancing the handling of slow nodes and preventing backup operations from hanging [#57666](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/57666) @[3pointer](https://github.com/3pointer)
```

    - Fix the issue that the optimizer does not take into account the character set and collations when simplifying complex predicates, resulting in possible execution errors [#56479](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/56479) @[dash12653](https://github.com/dash12653)
    - Fix the issue that the data for Stats Healthy Distribution in Grafana might be incorrect [#57176](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/57176) @[hawkingrei](https://github.com/hawkingrei)
    - Fix the issue that vector search might return incorrect results when querying tables with clustered indexes [#57627](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/57627) @[winoros](https://github.com/winoros)

+ TiKV <!--tw@Oreoxmt: 6 notes-->

    - (dup): release-7.1.6.md > 错误修复> TiKV - 修复读线程在从 Raft Engine 中的 MemTable 读取过时索引时出现的 panic 问题 [#17383](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/17383) @[LykxSassinator](https://github.com/LykxSassinator)
    - (dup): release-7.5.4.md > 错误修复> TiKV - 修复当大量事务在排队等待同一个 key 上的锁被释放且该 key 被频繁更新时，TiKV 可能因死锁检测压力过大而出现 OOM 的问题 [#17394](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/17394) @[MyonKeminta](https://github.com/MyonKeminta)

>     - Fix the issue that CPU usage for background tasks of resource control is counted multiple times [#17603](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/17603) @[glorv](https://github.com/glorv)

Author: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue that CPU usage for background tasks of resource control is counted twice [#17603](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/17603) @[glorv](https://github.com/glorv)
```

    - Fix the issue that TiKV OOM might occur due to the accumulation of CDC internal tasks [#17696](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/17696) @[3AceShowHand](https://github.com/3AceShowHand)

>     - Fix the issue that large batch writes cause jitter when `raft-entry-max-size` is set too high [#17701](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/17701) @[SpadeA-Tang](https://github.com/SpadeA-Tang)

Author: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue that large batch writes cause performance jitter when `raft-entry-max-size` is set too high [#17701](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/17701) @[SpadeA-Tang](https://github.com/SpadeA-Tang)
```

    - Fix the issue that the leader could not be quickly elected after Region split [#17602](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/17602) @[LykxSassinator](https://github.com/LykxSassinator)

>     - Fix the issue that TiKV might panic when using `RADIANS()` or `DEGREES()` [#17852](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/17852) @[gengliqi](https://github.com/gengliqi)

Author: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue that TiKV might panic when executing queries containing `RADIANS()` or `DEGREES()` functions [#17852](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/17852) @[gengliqi](https://github.com/gengliqi)
```

    - Fix the issue that write jitter might occur when all hibernated Regions are awakened [#17101](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/17101) @[hhwyt](https://github.com/hhwyt)

+ PD <!--tw@hfxsd: 3 notes-->

    - (dup): release-7.1.6.md > 错误修复> PD - 修复热点缓存中可能存在的内存泄露问题 [#8698](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/8698) @[lhy1024](https://github.com/lhy1024)

>     - Fix the issue that the resource group selector does not take effect for all panels [#56572](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/56572) @[glorv](https://github.com/glorv)

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue that the resource group selector does not take effect on any panel [#56572](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/56572) @[glorv](https://github.com/glorv)
```

    - Fix the issue that deleted resource groups still appear in the monitoring panel [#8716](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/8716) @[AndreMouche](https://github.com/AndreMouche)

>     - Fix the issue that log description is not clear when loading syncer [#8717](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/8717) @[lhy1024](https://github.com/lhy1024)

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
    - Fix unclear log descriptions during the Region syncer loading process [#8717](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/8717) @[lhy1024](https://github.com/lhy1024)
```

+ TiFlash <!--tw@Oreoxmt: 4 notes-->

    - (dup): release-7.1.6.md > 错误修复> TiFlash - 修复 `SUBSTRING()` 函数不支持部分整数类型的 `pos` 和 `len` 参数导致查询报错的问题 [#9473](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/9473) @[gengliqi](https://github.com/gengliqi)
    - Fix the issue that vector search performance might degrade after scaling out TiFlash write nodes in the disaggregated storage and compute architecture [#9637](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/9637) @[kolafish](https://github.com/kolafish)
    - Fix the issue that the `SUBSTRING()` function returns incorrect results when the second parameter is negative [#9604](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/9604) @[guo-shaoge](https://github.com/guo-shaoge)
    - Fix the issue that the `REPLACE()` function returns an error when the first parameter is a constant [#9522](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/9522) @[guo-shaoge](https://github.com/guo-shaoge)
    - Fix the issue that `LPAD()` and `RPAD()` functions return incorrect results in some cases [#9465](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/9465) @[guo-shaoge](https://github.com/guo-shaoge)

+ Tools

    + Backup & Restore (BR) <!--tw@hfxsd: 4 notes-->

>         - Fix the OOM issue when there are too many incomplete ranges that have not been backed up yet during backup [#53529](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/53529) @[Leavrth](https://github.com/Leavrth)

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
        - Fix the OOM issue during backups when there are too many uncompleted range gaps, reducing the amount of pre-allocated memory [#53529](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/53529) @[Leavrth](https://github.com/Leavrth)
```

>         - Fix the issue that global indexes cannot be backed up [#57469](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/57469) @[Defined2014](https://github.com/Defined2014)]

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
        - Fix the issue that global indexes cannot be backed up [#57469](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/57469) @[Defined2014](https://github.com/Defined2014)
```

        - Fix the issue that logs might print out encrypted information [#57585](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/57585) @[kennytm](https://github.com/kennytm)

>         - Fix the issue that Advancer cannot handle lock conflicts [#57134](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/57134) @[3pointer](https://github.com/3pointer)

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
        - Fix the issue that the advancer cannot handle lock conflicts [#57134](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/57134) @[3pointer](https://github.com/3pointer)
```

    + TiCDC <!--tw@Oreoxmt: 3 notes-->

        - Fix the issue that the Kafka messages lack Key fields when using the Debezium protocol [#1799](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/1799) @[wk989898](https://github.com/wk989898)

>         - Fix the issue that the redo module fails to properly report  errors [#11744](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/11744) @[CharlesCheung96](https://github.com/CharlesCheung96)

Author: ```suggestion
        - Fix the issue that the redo module fails to properly report errors [#11744](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/11744) @[CharlesCheung96](https://github.com/CharlesCheung96)
```

>         - Fix the issue that TiCDC mistakenly discards DDL tasks when the schema version of DDL tasks become non-incremental during TiDB Owner changes [#11714](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/11714) @[wlwilliamx](https://github.com/wlwilliamx)

Author: ```suggestion
        - Fix the issue that TiCDC mistakenly discards DDL tasks when the schema versions of DDL tasks become non-incremental during TiDB DDL owner changes [#11714](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/11714) @[wlwilliamx](https://github.com/wlwilliamx)
```
